PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

K. JAYATILLAKE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 01 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th January, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 19, 2007

1K. Jayatillake Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 01 of 2007

[Certified on 16th January, 2007]

L.D.—O. (INC) 21/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE K. JAYATILLEKE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“K. Jayatilleke Foundation” has been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the K. Jayatilleke Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 01 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theK. Jayatilleke Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of the“K. Jayatilleke Foundation”, (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have and to use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to introduce measures for the development oflanguage and literature ;

(b)to preserve and publish the creations and literaryworks of K. Jayatilleke and leave them as legacy tofuture generations ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe K. JayatillekeFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2K. Jayatillake Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 01 of 2007

(c)to establish a centre for creative, traditional andliterary activities centred in the native village ofK. Jayatilleke, and to conduct literary seminars andworkshops ;

(d)to initiate a project to encourage those engaged increating a new creative and classical literature ;

(e)to take steps with a view to enhancing the artistictalents of the people in and around the native villageof K. Jayatilleke ;

(f)to extend these activities to other areas of the Island ;

(g)to patronize the religious, cultural and socialservices activities approved by the Corporation ;

(h)to implement co-operative programmes based onrelations with whatever social service organizationand religious and cultural organization whichconsiders it necessary.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, or any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employand dismiss officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall subject to the rules to be made under section 6 of thisAct, be administered by a Board of Management consistingof office bearers and such other members as may be providedfor in such rules and elected, in accordance therewith.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3K. Jayatillake Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 01 of 2007

(2) The First Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by a majorityof not less than two-thirds of the members present and tovoting to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act, or other written law, for the admission, withdrawalor expulsion of members for the election of members of theBoard of Management for the conduct of the functions of theBoard of Management and of the various, officers, agentsand servants, for the procedure to be followed in thetransaction of business at meetings of the Corporation, forthe management of the affairs of the Corporation and for theattainment of its objects. Such rules when made may, at alike meeting and in like manner be altered, added to, amendedor rescinded.

(2) Every member of the Corporation shall upon thecoming into operation of this Act, be subject to the rules tobe made form time to time by the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard of Mangement shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act .

8.(1) The Board of Management of the Corporation shallcause proper books of account to be kept of the income andexpenditure of the Corporation.

Accounts of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

4K. Jayatillake Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 01 of 2007

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Board of Management ofthe Corporation.

(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses, acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debtsdue to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that date, shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purpose of this Act.

10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gifttestamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of them.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

5K. Jayatillake Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 01 of 2007

.12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributingany income or property among its or their members. SuchInstitute or Institutes shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution ofthe Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or anyother persons.

14. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.