PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

(DR.) MALANI FONSEKA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 18 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th August, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 10, 2012

1(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 2012

[Certified on 06th August, 2012]

L.D.—O. Inc. 22/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE (DR.) MALANI FONSEKA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Dr. Malani Fonseka Foundation” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may by cited as the (Dr.) Malani FonsekaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 18 2012.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation” (hereinafter referred toas the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave, and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

2—PL 006058 -3,090 (05/2011)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporationof the(Dr.) MalaniFonsekaFoundation.

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation(Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 20122

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to foster and preserve aesthetic, performance andtraditional arts and crafts of Sri Lanka and topromote such arts and crafts both nationally andinternationally ;

(b)to formulate and implement suitable projects toimprove the social, academic and economicstandards of the Sri Lankan Artists and those whoare involved in the promotion of Sri Lankan artsand crafts ;

(c)to formulate and implement suitable projects forthe welfare of senior citizens, women and childrenof Sri Lanka ;

(d)to grant scholarships and bursaries to needy anddeserving students of Sri Lanka particularly tofacilitate them to engage in higher education ;

(e)to formulate and implement appropriateprogrammes to teach Tamil language to Sinhalastudents and Sinhala language to Tamil students ;

(f)to formulate and implement appropriateprogrammes to improve the English lauguage skillsof the Sri Lankan students ;

(g)to establish and maintain Information TechnologyCenters particularly in the rural and underdeveloped areas with a view to improving computerliteracy of rural students ;

(h)to assist those who are engaged in agriculture andfisheries industries by providing them with latesttechnological information and other necessaryassistance ;

The generalobjects of theCorporation.

3(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 2012

(i)to formulate and implement poverty alleviationprogrammes for the overall welfare and developmentof the poor ;

(j)to sponsor and promote sports among the childrenand youth according to their talents and interests ;

(k)to organize awareness programmes on concepts suchas fundamental rights, fundamental duties,democracy and good governance with a view topromoting such concepts among the Sri Lankans ;and

(l)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of thecorporation.

(2) The Corporation shall ensure that the implementationof the objects of the Corporation shall be carried out withoutany distinction based on race, religion, language, caste, sexor political opinion.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts of donation in cash orkind :

Provided that, the Board shall obtain prior writtenapproval of the Department of External Resourcesof the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subjectof Finance is assigned, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations and it shall be audited bythe Auditor General ;

Powers of theCorporation.

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation(Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 20124

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank ;

(d)to enter into contracts partnerships or agreementswith any Governmental or non Governmentalorganizations or any other person or institutionwhether in Sri lanka or abroad ;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Executive Committee may determine ;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to train personnel in Sri lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(h)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Actbe administered by an Executive Committee consisting ofsuch number of office bearers elected in the manner as maybe provided by the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6.

(2) One of the office bearers of the Executive Committeeshall be an officer not below the rank of Assistant Secretaryof the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of SocialServices is assigned and appointed by such Minister.

Management ofthe Affairs of theCorporation.

5(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 2012

(3) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation whohold office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(4) No office bearer of the Executive Committee,including the patrons, shall hold office for more than threeconsecutive years in the same post.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, explusion or resignation of members andfees payable by the members ;

(b)the qualifications and disqualifications for membersof the Executive Committee and the Corporation ;

(c)the election of office bearers of the ExecutiveCommittee or vacation of or removal from office andthe powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

(d)the appoinment, powers, functions and duties andthe terms and conditions of the various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be followed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Executive Committee,the Corporation or any sub-committee thereof, fillingof vacancies, notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat ; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation for the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporatiaon.

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation(Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 20126

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation made under thissection.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequest,donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for andon account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one ormore banks approved by the Executive Committee to thecredit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualiafied auditor appointed by the ExecutiveCommittee.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the councile of suchInstitute; or

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

7(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 2012

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the council of such Institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCorporation shall be able and capable in law to take andhold any property, movable or immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gifttestamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6 with power to sell, mortgage, lease exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from time to time to the Corporation.

12.The Corporation shall be a non-profit organizationand no part of the gains, profits or dividends, if any, of theCorporation shall be distributed among the members of theCorporation.

13.(a) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any money or property whatsoever, such money or propertyshall not be distributed among the members of the

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

Corporation tobe a non-ProfitOrganization.

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation(Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 20128

Corporation, but shall be given or transferred to some otherinstitution or institutions, having objects similar to those ofthe Corporation and which is or are by the rules thereof,prohibited from distributing any income or property amongits members.

(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) the appropriateinstitution or institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Corporation immediately before the dissolution.

14.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of Executive Committee of the Corporation, whoshall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporatiaon.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of theRights of theRepublic andothers.

9(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 18 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.