PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ANURADHAPURA SRI PUSHPADANADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 34 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd August, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2011

1Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011

Short title.

Preamble.

2—PL 005079 —3,190 (07/2010)

[Certified on 22nd August, 2011]

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ANURADHAPURA SRI PUSHPADANADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as“Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development Foundation”has heretofore been formed in Anuradhapura in Sri Lankafor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transactingall objects and matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be expedient to grant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the AnuradhapuraSri Pushpadana Development Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 34 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Actsuch and so many persons as now are members of the“Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of “Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have, and use a common seal andalter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to safeguard the Buddhist cultural heritage withinthe sacred area in Anuradhapura;

Incorporationof theAnuradhapuraSri PushpadanaDevelopmentFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20112

(b)to make arrangements for free distribution of flowersamong the Buddhist devotees who arrive in to thesacred area in Anurdhapura;

(c)to offer “dana” (mid day meal) and “gilanpasa”(evening meal) to the visiting Bhikku (Monks),Upasaka, Upasika, paupers and travelers on eachand every full moon day;

(d)to make arrangements for conducting Seela andMeditation classes and Dhamma sermon forBuddhist devotees in the sacred area inAnuradhapura;

(e)to make arrangements for the protection of thepersonal belongings of pilgrims on special festiveoccasions and to provide them with other necessaryfacilities;

(f)to publish Damma books and leaflets for thepromotion of the Buddhism and to establish aBuddhist Library Service;

(g)to assist Buddhist monks and needy Buddhistchildren in their studies and organize scholarshipsfor them; and

(h)to undertake activities in co-ordination with otherBuddhist institutions whose objectives are similarto that of the Corporation.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to doperform and execute all such acts matters and thingswhatsoever of the objects of the Corporation or one of them,including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwiseobtain land or building which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

3Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011

(b)to receive grants, gifts or donation, in cash or kindwhether from local or foreign sources;

(c)to erect or cause to be erected, any building orstructure on any land belonging to, or held by theCorporation;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory note and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close current,saving and deposit account in any bank;

(e)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation in such manner asthe Committee may think fit;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister lawful trusts and conditions affectingany movable or immovable property;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the corporation; and

(h)to train personnel in the matters required to bedone for the implementation of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe other provisions of this Act, be administered by aCommittee consisting of a Chief Chairman, seven ViceChairmen, a Chief Secretary, Vice Secretary, a Treasurerand Auditor and Nineteen other Committee Members asmay be provided for in the rules made under section 8 andelected in accordance therewith.

(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consistof the members of the Committee of the Foundation holding

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20114

office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act and who shall hold office until anew committee is elected under the rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a registerin which every person who on the date of commencement ofthis Act, is a member of the Corporation, and every personthereafter duly admitted as member of the Corporation shallhave inscribed in such register his name.

(2) The register shall contain the following particulars:—

(a)name, address and occupation of the each Memberof the Corporation;

(b)the date on which the name of the member wasinscribed in the register; and

(c)the date on which any person ceased to be member.

7.Cancellation of membership may cause due to one ofthe following reasons:—

(a)at the death of the member;

(b)resignation;

(c)mental incapacity; and

(d)violation of any rules.

8.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any General Meeting and by a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law, for all or any of thefollowing matters:—

(a)the classification of membership, the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

Register ofmembers.

Cancellation ofmembership.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011

(b)the election of the office bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from, office of officebearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee andtheir powers, conduct and duties, and the terms ofoffice of members of the Corporation;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and function of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed and the summoningand holding of meeting of the Committee, the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum thereof and the conduct of business thereat;and

(f)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription shall be deposited to thecredit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theCommittee shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, any expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties and functions of this Act.

Fund of theCorporation.

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20116

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontribution payable to, the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts, to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual, who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute;

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

12.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 8, with full power to sell mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Accounts andAudit.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

7Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theChief Chairman and the Chief Secretary or the Treasurerwho shall sign their names to the instrument in token of thetheir presence, and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institution orInstitutions having object similar to those of the Corporation,and which is or are by the rules there of prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such Institution or Institutions shall be determinedby the Corporation immediately before, the dissolution ofthe Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic, orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of theright of theRepublic andother.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20118

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.