PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

JEYARAJ FERNANDOPULLE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 34 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd August, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 24, 2007

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20071

Short title.

Preamble.

[Certified on 23rd August, 2007]

L. D. O (INC) 24/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JEYARAJ FERNANDOPULLEFOUNDATION

WHEREAS an association called and known as the JeyarajFernandopulle Foundation has heretofore been formed inNegombo for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting the objects and matters connected with the saidassociation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Jeyaraj FernandopulleFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation” (hereinafter referred toas the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by thatname may sue, and be sued, in all courts, with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needyschool children to enable them to continue theireducation, encourage them to attend schoolregularly, assist them in their educational, culturaland scientific activities and to establish permanentand mobile libraries;

General objects ofthe Corporation.

Incorporation ofthe JeyarajFernandopulleFoundation.

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20072

(b)to organize seminars, workshops, lecturers,exhibitions, competitive tests and educational tourswith a view to promoting the educational activitiesof school children and to hold competitions andtraining camps in order to improve their sports skillsand artistic skills and to take steps, including theaward of prizes and certificates and giving assistancefor local or foreign tours to talented children;

(c)to offer prizes and organize workshops and seminars,and provide loan schemes and other assistance toschool principals and teachers, in order to appreciateand encourage their services and to improve theirprofessional knowledge;

(d)to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,sports skills and teachnical knowledge of schoolleavers and to set up vocational training centers aswell as give them assistance to persue studies incomputer science and technology and to establishinstitutions to provide such studies;

(e)to assist by granting scholarships to students selectedto Universities and Technical Colleges and toestablish self-employment opportunities forunemployed citizens and to provide loans and toinaugurate various savings schemes;

(f)to inaugurate and maintain pre-schools for earlychildhood development of the poor children,inaugurate and maintain classes in variouslanguages and various subjects for elders, schoolchildren, school leavers and provide them with otherfacilities;

(g)to provide lands and houses to families who do notown lands and houses, inaugurate water supplyschemes in areas where there is a shortage of water,take steps to prevent and minimize natural disasters

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20073

such as floods, provide buildings to schools withless facilities and to cater to other needs of suchschools and provide infrastructure facilities suchas roads, electricity and health in various areas;

(h)to assist in the development of educational,religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilitieswithout any reference to race, religion or caste andto conduct various festivals and competitions;

(i)to provide medical relief and food for the poor,destitute and sick persons, establish and maintainhouses for displaced persons and elders andestablish and maintain Children’s home and daycare centres for children and elders;

(j)to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops, debates,panel discussions, tours, pleasure trips or such otheractivities with a view to accomplishing theobjectives of the Corporation and to print, publishand distribute such books, journals, bulletins andnewspapers as are necessaty to achieve these objects;

(k)to provide facilities for the blind, deaf and dumb bythe establishment and maintenance of transithouses; and

(l)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreigninstitutions which have similar objects.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation, be administered by a Boardof Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary,Treasurer and another nine more members elected inaccordance with such rules.

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, HonourableMinister Jeyaraj Fernandopulle shall be the Chairman of theBoard of Directors for life and thereafter, the eldest child ofthe person who was holding office as the Chairman, shallbecome the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20074

(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Board of Administration of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than theChairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by deathor resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Wheredue to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board ofDirectors, a new member shall be appointed to fill suchvacancy, and such a new member shall hold office for a periodof four years.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest funds and to engage, employand dismiss, officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from to time,at any General Meeting of the members and by a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present and voting tomake rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand membership fees payable;

(b)procedure to be observed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Directors, the quorum for such meetingsand the exercise and performance of their powersand duties;

General powersof theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20075

(c)the appointment, powers, duties and functions ofthe various officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(d)qualifications required to become a member of theCorporation and of the Board of Directors; and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid and discharged by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that date shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of the Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard of Directors shall determined.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Fund of theCorporation.

Debts due by andpayable to thefoundation.

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20076

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property both movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,lease, gift, testementary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and be subject to the rules in force for the time beingof the Corporation and the Corporation shall have full powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

10.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount due from such member as membershipfees.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichare by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among their members. Such institutionor institutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at, or immediately before the time of thedissolution.

12.(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shallcause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received andexpended by the Corporation.

(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by an auditor orauditors appointed by the Board of Directors.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

Auditing andaccounts of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining afterdissolution.

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20077

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theChairman and one other member of the Board of Directors,who shall write and sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,corporate or of any other persons.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.