PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MAHINDANANDA ALUTHGAMAGE

FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 75 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

1Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

2—PL 004442— 3,150 (10/2009)

Short title.

[Certified on 23rd December 2009]

L.D.—O. INC 3/2009.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MAHINDANANDA ALUTHGAMAGE

FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation” has heretoforebeen created for the purpose of effectually carrying outand transacting all objects and matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which the said Foundation was established,and has applied to be incorporated, and it will be for thepublic advantage to grant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the MahindanandaAluthgamage Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 75of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theMahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued and shall have full power andauthority to have and use a common Seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Incorporation oftheMahindanandaAluthgamageFoundation.

Preamble.

2 Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to award prizes and scholarships to needy schoolchildren to enable them to continue their eductionand to encourage them to attend school regularly ;

(b)to establish and maintain libraries including mobilelibraries to assist the students in their educationalactivities ;

(c)to organize seminars, workshops, lectures,exhibitions, and educational tours with a view topromoting the educational activities of schoolchildren ;

(d)provide for loan schemes and other assistance toschool principals and teachers in order to encouragethem to enhance their professional knowledge ;

(e)to award scholarships to deserving studentsselected to follow courses at Universities andtechnical Colleges ;

(f)to introduce self-employment opportunities, loansand savings schemes and vocational training andcomputer traning centres for school leavers ;

(g)to establish and maintain per-schools for earlychildhood development of the needy children ;

(h)to grant lands and houses to needy families who donot own lands or houses ;

(i)to supply wheel chairs and other medical equipmentto hospitals and to provide medical relief and foodfor the needy, destitute and sick, establish andmaintain houses for displaced persons and elders

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

and establish and maintain Children’s homes anddaycare centres for children and elders ;

(j)to print, publish and distribute such books, journals,bulletins and newspapers as are necessary todisseminate information relating to the objects ofthe incorporation ; and

(k)to assist persons who are blind, deaf and dumb byproviding for their needs.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Directors consisting of theChairman, Secretary, Treasurer and nine other members whoshall be elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, HonourableMinister Mahindananda Aluthgamage shall be the firstChairman of the Board of Directors of the corporation.

(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallbe the Board of Directors of the Foundation holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a)borrow or raise money with or without security forthe purpose of the Corporation ;

(b)utilize the funds belonging to the Corporation inorder to achieve the objects of the Corporation, in amanner determined by the Board of Directors ;

(c)open, maintain and close bank accounts in any bankor banks as may be determined by the Board ofDirectors ;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

4 Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

(d)employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation ;

(e)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreigninstitutions which have similar objects ;

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting or at a Special General Meetingby a majority of not less than one third of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law for all orany of the following matters :—

(a)the election of the office bearers, their term of office,resignation from, or vacation of, or removal fromoffice and their powers and duties ;

(b)the election and the terms of office of membersof the Board of Directors other than the officebearers, and the powers and duties of the Board ofDirectors ;

(c)classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion of members and membershipfees ;

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts ;

(e)the procedure to be followed at any meeting of theBoard of Directors and the quorum therefor and theconduct of business thereat ; and

(f)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty both movable and immovable by way of purchase,grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way ofgifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution or grantson behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the creditof the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard of Directors may determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney as may be required to defray any expenditure incurredby the Corporation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid and discharged by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount due from such members as membershipfees.

Corporationmay holdmovable andimmovableproperty.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

The Fund of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

6 Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

11.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Board of Directors.

(3) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor ”means —

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of the Chairman andtwo members of the Corporation as may be decided by theBoard of Directors, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property after the satisfaction of all debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transmittedto some other institution or institutions having objects similarto those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such institution or institutions may bedetermined by the Board of Directors on or before thedissolution of the Corporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

7Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

14.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

8 Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.