PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SHANTHA CHILDREN'S EDUCATIONSERVICES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 19 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th June, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007

1Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe ShanthaChildren'sEducationServicesFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

[Certified on 20th June, 2007]

L.D.—O. (INC) 19/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SHANTHA CHILDREN'S EDUCATIONSERVICES FOUNDATION

WHEREAS A Foundation called and known as the ShanthaChildren's Education Services Foundation has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Shantha Children'sEducation Services Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 19of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the ShanthaChildren's Education Services Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”), and shall hereafter beadmitted members of the Corporation hereby constitutedshall be a body corporate with perpetual succession underthe name and style of the “Shantha Children's EducationServices Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and use a common Seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be —

(a) to establish pre-schools with a view to familiarize thechildren with school environment ;

2Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007

(b) to grant scholarships to poor students of rural andurban areas ;

(c) to establish children's parks to ensure the physicaland mental growth of children ;

(d) to provide common amenities and educationalequipment to under equipped schools situated inremote areas ;

(e) to provide medical facilities through medical clinicsto children living in the areas where there are poormedical facilities :

Provided however provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and(d) shall be given effect to only subject to the supervision ofthe Provincial Director of Education, Divisional Director ofEducation, Regional Director of Education and the Chairmanof the local authority or any officer authorized by him inwriting.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a) receive or collect grants, gifts or donations from localor foreign sources ;

(b) acquire and hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of anymovable or immovable property ;

(c) give grants, endowments or loans for the furtheranceof the objects of the Corporation ;

(d) appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over its officers and servants ;

(e) open and close current, savings and deposit accountsin any bank or banks and borrow or raise money withor without security ;

General powersof theCorporation.

3Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007

(f) invest funds of the Corporation in such securities asmay be determined by the Committee ofManagement ; and

(g) to do all such other acts and things as are incidentalor conducive to the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appionted by the Committee ofManagement.

6.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the timebeing be administered by a Committee of Managementconsisting of eleven following members :—

(a) Hon. President, Hon. Vice President, General Secretary,Assistant Secretary, Treasurer; and

(b) six other members elected in accordance with the rulesin force for the time being of the Corporation.

(2) The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the members of the Committeeof Management of the Foundation holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any General Meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law for the following matters :—

(a) the admission to and withdrawal or expulsion ofmembership and the membership fees payable ;

Audit andAccounts.

Management ofthe Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007

(b) the election of members of the Committee ofManagement and their powers and duties ;

(c) the duties and functions of the officers and servantsof the Corporation ;

(d) the procedure to be followed in the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement and the quorum and the conduct ofbusiness thereat.

(2) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules for the time being in force of the Corporation.

8.If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remainsany property after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferredto some other institution or institutions having objects similarto those of the Corporation, and which is or are by is rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundationas on such day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold property both movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant, gift,testamentary dispositon or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules in force for the time being of theCorporation, shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Transfer ofremainingproperty afterdissolution.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

5Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007

11.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Committee of Management and not to be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and two other members of the Committee ofManagement and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA AVENUE, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.