PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF PROJECT MANAGERSSRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 73 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

1Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

L.D.—O. INC. 1/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF PROJECT MANAGERSSRI LANKA

WHEREAS an institute called and known as the “Instituteof Project Managers Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenestablished in Colombo, for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said institute according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said institute has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of ProjectManagers Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct such and so many persons as now are or may hereafterbe enrolled as corporate and non corporate members of theInstitute of Project Managers Sri Lanka, (hereinafter referredto as the “Institute”), or shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession, under the name and styleof the “Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have and to usea common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Institute ofProject ManagersSri Lanka.

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 20092

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote and advance the science and practice ofproject management in Sri Lanka ;

(b)to foster professionalism in the management ofprojects ;

(c)to help in obtaining and exchanging academic andindustrial research and technical knowledge in thefield of project management by introducing speedycommunication systems and discussions thereon,by establishing and maintaining technical andmanagement libraries, publications on matters ofprofessional interest and any such other means ;

(d)to promote the study of project management,to encourage original research and provide arecognized forum for the free exchange of ideas,applications and solutions with a view of facilitatingthe scientific and economic development ofSri Lanka ;

(e)to conduct examinations for the granting ofmembership of the Corporation to test the competencyof persons engaged in project management and togrant certificates of competence ;

(f)to determine the eligibility of candidates foradmission to various grades of membership;

(g)to maintain ethics, standards and accreditation inthe field of project management ;

(h)to regulate the professional activities and to assistin maintaining high standards in the field of projectmanagement ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009

(i)to collaborate with universities and othereducational institutes to encourage academic andindustrial research and for relevant areas ofeducation and career development at all levels inproject management ;

(j)to provide and maintain the necessary buildingsand material for the well being of its members andthe general public ;

(k)to encourage and assist in the settlement of disputesby adjudicators, arbitrators and to maintain panelsof adjudicators and arbitrators ; and

(l)to establish relationships with other public andprivate organizations, with regard to projectmanagement, and to co-operate in matters ofcommon interest ;

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingwhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate or close bankaccounts, to borrow and raise money with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the purpose of carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjectto the rules of Corporation, to be made under section 6 ofthis Act, be administered by a Council consisting ofthe President, the immediate Past President, the VicePresident, the General Secretary, the Treasurer, the AssitantSecretary, the Editor, the Assistant Treasurer and such otheroffice-bearers as may be provided for by the rules and electedin accordance therewith.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 20094

(2)The members of the committee of the Instituteholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the membersof the first Council of the Corpration.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime at any meeting by the votes of not less than two thirds ofthe members present and voting, to make rules notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, for all or any one of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal and expulsion of members and theparticulars to be incsribed in the register of members;

(b)the election of the members of the Council and itspowers , duties and functions and the term of officeof the members of the Council ;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at meetings of theCouncil ; the summoning and holding of meetingsof the Council, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meetings ; the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(f)generally, the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2) Such rules when made may, at a like meeting, and inlike manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009

7.The Council of the Corporation shall cause to bemaintained a register in which every person who, on the dateof commencement of this Act, is a member of the Corporation,and every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of theCorporation shall have inscribed in such register his name,address and such other particulars as may be prescribed underthe rules of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants,for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation, in one or more banks as theCouncil shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporaton in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.(1) The Council of the Corporation shall cause properbooks of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditureof the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor, at least once in every year.

(3) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of the instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other

Register ofmembers.

Accounts andaudit..

Fund of theCorporation.

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 20096

Institute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationhereby constituted, and all debts due to, and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Institute on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation hereby constituted, for the purposesof this Act.

11.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowsoever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as setforth herein and no protionthereof shall be paid, or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to themembers of the Corporation.

12.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law tocharge —

(a)such fees, as the Corporation may deem reasonable,for admission to any course or examinationconducted by the Corporation ;

(b)fees for the admission of persons to any class ofmembership of the Corporation ; and

(c)such subscription and fees as the Corporation maydeem appropriate to charge.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation, made under section 6 with full powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Corporation mayhold property,movable andimmovable.

Power to chargefees andsubscription.

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute.

7Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009

14.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Council, one of whom shall be the Presidentof the Corporation who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

15.The Corporation shall have the power to appointdisciplinary committees and to make such other steps as maybe deemed appropriate from time to time, for the control ofprofessional standards and for the management of disciplineamong persons practising or acting as project managers inSri Lanka.

16.If upon dissolution of the Corporation, there remainsafter the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but such propertyshall be given or transferred to such institution or institutionshaving objects similar to the objects of the Corporation andwhich is or are by the rules thereof prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. The members of the Corporation shall determinesuch institution or institutions at the time of dissolution ofthe Corporation or prior to such dissolution.

17.Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the rightsof the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

DisciplinaryCommittees.

Dissolution.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 20098

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.