PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

JOHN SENEVIRATNE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 27 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th August, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 2014

1John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2014

2—PL 005320—2100 (07/2014)

[Certified on 20th August, 2014]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 28/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JOHN SENEVIRATNE FOUNDATION.

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “JohnSeneviratne Foundation” has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the John SeneviratneFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 27 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement ofthis Act such and so many persons as now are members ofthe “John Seneviratne Foundation” (hereinafter referred toas the "Foundation") and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “John Seneviratne Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”), and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have, and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporationof the JohnSeneviratneFoundation.

John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 20142

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to award scholarships to deserving strudents whohave been select to follow coureses at Universitiesand Technical Colleges;

(b)to establish and maintain water supply schemes inareas where there is a scarcity of water, subject tothe provisions of section 21 of the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board Law, No 2 of 1974;

(c)to organize tours, pleasure trips and such otheractivities, with a viwe to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(d)to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and co-operation among all communities and people ofSri Lanka;

(e)to introduce suitable methods to prevent orminimize the impact of natural disasters;

(f)to assist the relevent authorities—

(i)to organize workshops and seminars, andprovide other necessary assistance to schoolprincipals and teachers in order to appreciateand encourage their services and to enhancetheir professional knowledge and skills;

(ii)to provide medical relief to the needy withthe assistance of doctors and health workersattached to teaching hospitals;

(iii)to assist needy children financially orotherwise to enable them to continue theirstudies;

General Objectsof theCorporation.

3John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2014

(iv)to grant lands and houses to needy familieswho do not own lands and houses inaccordance with the applicable laws;

(v)to establish and maintain vocational traininginstitutions and encourage school leavers toimprove their vocational skills by attendingsuch institutions;

(vi)to provide self-employment opportunities forunemployed;

(vii)to print, publish and distribute such books,journals, bulletins and newspapers as arenecessary to disseminate information relatingto the objects of the Corporation; and

(vii)to assist other voluntary organizationsregistered under the Ministry of SocialServices in providing facilities to visuallyhandicaped and hearing impaired persons.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any one of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Governing Board(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 20144

(2) (a) The Board of the foundation holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation untilthe first Board is appointed or elected in the manner providedfor by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the Corporation shall have the power todo, perform and execute all such acts and matters as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power—

(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the pruposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

5John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2014

(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities andto receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administerany lawful trust or any real or personal property witha view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with aview to promoting the objectives of the Corporation;

(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 20146

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorpration and the accomplishment of its' objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

Rules of theCorporation.

7John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2014

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Government Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 20148

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof social services and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,the same.

Annual Report.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

9John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2014

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

15.(1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as awitness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of the votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

John Seneviratne Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 201410

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.