PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 09, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th of September, 2022]

SISIRA JAYAKODY SIYAPATHA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 20 OF 2022

1Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

[Certified on 06th of September, 2022]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 10/2016

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SISIRA JAYAKODY SIYAPATHAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “SisiraJayakody Siyapatha Foundation” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sisira JayakodySiyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the SisiraJayakody Siyapatha Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe body corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Sisira JayakodySiyapatha Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “bodycorporate”), and by that name may sue and be sued with fullpower and authority to have, and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporation ofthe SisiraJayakodySiyapathaFoundation

2Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Services Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organization(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any written law, thegeneral objects for which the body corporate is constitutedare hereby declared to be–

(a) to conduct various studies, lectures and seminars toencourage self-employment and to provide necessarytrainings, assistance and sponsorships to those whoare unemployed with a view to promoting selfemployment;

(b) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities to renovate and maintain religiousplaces;

(c) to conduct the mobile service programme called “JanaSahana” to provide various assistance to needypeople;

(d) to conduct lectures and seminars on the rquirementsof the job market in order to give assistance to theundergraduate students to equip themselves withrequired quqlifications and trainings;

(e) to provide assistance and implement supportprogrammes for senior citizens; and

(f) to take actions in order to develop the indigenousmedicine with the consent of the relevant authorities.

General objectsof the bodyCorporate

3Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, gender, politicalopinion, place of birth or such other ground.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout subject to necessary approvals under applicable writtenlaws and in such manner so as not to create any conflictbetween the work of the body corporate and any work beingcarried out simultaneously by any Ministry or Departmentof the Government or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aBoard of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specifiedby the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Board of Directors of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act shall, subject to therules made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Boardof the body corporate until the first Board is appointed orelected within the period specified in paragraph (d) and inthe manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporate shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporate notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw.

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict with thework of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

4Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The first Board of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall have regard to the rules of the bodycorporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepower–

(a) to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the body corporate and to deal withor dispose of the same as may be determined by theBoard with a view to promoting the objects of thebody corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorised in that behalfby the body corporate, all such contracts or agreementsas may be necessary for the attainment of the objectsor the exercise of the powers of the body corporate;

(c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations from local orforeign sources in cash or kind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign funds, grants, giftsor donations received by or made to the bodycorporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accounts inany bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administerany lawful trust having objects similar to the bodycorporate or any real or personal property with a viewto promoting the objects of the body corporate;

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and other employees of the body corporateand exercise disciplinary control over them and topay them such salaries and allowances as may bedetermined by the body corporate;

6Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with aview to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to those of the bodycorporate;

(j) to train officers and other employees in Sri Lanka orabroad for the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k) to do all such acts and other things authorized by thisAct for the achievement of the objects of the bodycorporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for thefollowing matters:–

(a) the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b) the election of the office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and otheremployees of the body corporate;

(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board, notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

Rules of thebody corporate

7Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate;

(f) the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate;

(g) the procedure and manner of liaising andcoordinating with other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of the bodycorporate; and

(h) generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within threemonths after its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeparliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of body corporate shall at all times besubject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

Register ofmembers

8Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grant for andon account of the body corporate shall be deposited in oneor more banks approved by the Board to the credit of thebody corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution, and be certified by theAuditor General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor”means–

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchinstitute; or

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

9Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchinstitute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsand a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporatecertified by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor referredto in section 10, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of education and to the Registrar ofVoluntary Social Service Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Service Organizations (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate and detailsof all contracts and agreements entered into by the bodycorporate and the rules of the body corporate made undersection 7 during the financial year shall be attached to thereport referred to in subsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

AnnualReport

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation

10Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the body corporate for thepurpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the bodycorporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by theBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate,there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, and property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the body corporate, and which isby the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing an incomeor property among its members.

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Seal of the bodycorporate

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Body Corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

11Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

12Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.