PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THARUNYATA HETAK ORGANIZATION

(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 7 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 25, 2011

1Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe TharunyataHetakOrganization.

General objectsof theCorporation.

[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 9/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE THARUNYATA HETAK ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the“Tharunyata Hetak Organization” has heretofore beencreated for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with thesaid Organization according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Tharunyata HetakOrganization (Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011.

2. From and after the date of commencement ofthis Act, such and so many persons as now are members ofthe Tharunyata Hetak Organization (hereinafter referred toas “the Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Tharunyata Hetak Organization”(hereinafter referred to as the “ Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued and shall have full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be to—

(a)foster and promote mutual understanding, a spiritof national consciousness, goodwill and friendship

Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 20112

among the citizens of Sri Lanka and to promotepeace and harmony among the Sinhala, Tamil,Muslim and Burgher youth in Sri Lanka;

(b)assist students who prepare for governmentexaminations by conducting lectures, seminars andstudy tours;

(c)promote religious harmony, mutual understanding,peaceful co-existence, spiritual development andfriendship among the people of Sri Lanka throughreligious, cultural, social and economic interactions;

(d)assist needy students by providing them with booksand other equipment and school uniforms and togrant scholarships to students who are in thesecondary and tertiary stage of their education;

(e)identify the talents of students at rural andprovincial levels in areas such as sports and musicand to encourage them to excel in them byproviding the infrastructure required therefor;

(f)identify projects suitable for young school leaversand assist them in carrying out such projects with aview to training such youth to meet the competitivedemands for future employment;

(g)assist youth financially and otherwise in order todevelop their personal skills and aptitude and toenable them to take up self employment;

(h)assist differently abled youth in developing theirpersonality;

(i)conduct awareness programmes for youth in orderto promote a tobacco, alcohol and a drug free societyand build a healthy, disciplined, patriotic andhumane generation;

3Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011

(j)conduct programmes to discuss the problems facedby the youth in different areas in Sri Lanka due tolack of infrastructure facilities such as water,housing and roads and provide amenities to suchneedy youth;

(k)organize and mobilize youth in voluntary activitiesin order to find solutions to shortcomings ininfrastructure;

(l)identify the health requirements of the youth inrural and remote areas and to conduct medicalcamps and clinics in such areas and through suchcamps and clinics supply medicines to the needy;

(m)facilitate the exchange of youth delegations withother international organizations having similarobjects with a view to building friendship andunderstanding between Sri Lanka and othercountries; and

(n)assemble and unite all youth under thisOrganization with a view to promoting nationalharmony and peace within Sri Lanka;

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a)open, operate and close bank accounts;

(b)borrow or raise money with or without security,and to receive or collect grants and donations;

(c)invest any funds of the Corporation which are notimmediately required for the purpose of theCorporation in a way that may be determined bythe Committee of Management;

(d)purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire,sell orotherwise obtain any movable or immovable

Powers of theCorporation.

Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 20114

property which may be required for the purpose ofthe Corporation and which may lawfully beacquired for those purposes and to deal with ordispose of the same, as it may deem expedient witha view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;

(e)appoint, employ and dismiss the employeesrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation and pay them such remuneration asmay be determined by the Corporation;

(f)enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly orthrough any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation; and

(g)appoint advisory councils, committees or subcommittees as and when necessary to carry out anyfunctions of the Corporation as may be determinedby the Committee of Management.

5.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisionsof this Act and the rules of the corporation made under section6 of this Act, be administered by a Committee of Managementconsisting of not less than five members.

(2) No act or proceeding of the Committee of Managementshall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existenceof a vacancy among its members or any defect on the electionor nomination of a member thereof.

(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist ofthe members of the Committee of Management holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act and shall continue to hold office until a newCommittee of Management is elected in accordance withthe rules made under section 6 of this Act.

Management ofthe Affairs ofthe Corporation.

5Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting by a majority of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present to make rules notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any otherwritten law, on all or any of the following matters—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee ofManagement and its powers, duties and conductand the terms of office of members of the Committeeof Management;

(d)the powers, duties, functions and conduct of theofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meetings, the quorum thereof and theconduct of business thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporation,and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and in the likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 20116

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.The Secretary of the Committee of Management shallkeep and maintain a register containing the names of themembers of the Corporation.

8.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty both movable and immovabe, which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or othermwise, and all such property shall beheld by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act andsubject to the rules of the corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributionsor fees on behlf of the Corporation shall be deposited to thecredit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banksas the Committee of Management may determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fundor a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development or improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of moneyto defray any expenditure incurred by the corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act.

(4) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Organisation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby

Register of theMembers of theCorporation.

Corporationmay holdmovable andimmovableproperty.

Debts due byand payable totheOrganization.

Fund of theCorporation.

7Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011

constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Organisation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount due from such member as membershipfees.

12.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor.

(3) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

13.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or two other members of theCorporation as may be decided by the committee ofManagement who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the singing of any person as a witness.

Limitation ofLiability ofMembers.

Accounts andAudits.

Seal of theCorporation.

Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 20118

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of alldebts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be givenor transferred to some other institution having objects similarto those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such institution or institutions may bedetermined by the members of the Committee ofManagement on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, any body politic or corporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

9Tharunyata Hetak Organization(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.