PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

T. B. EKANAYAKE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 14 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th June, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 2012

1T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

2—PL 005066— 3090 (07/2010)

Short title.

[Certified on 06th June, 2012]

L.D.—O. Inc. 26/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE T. B. EKANAYAKE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as“T. B. Ekanayake Foundation” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed, and has applied to beincorporated :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the T. B. EkanayakeFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012.

2. From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theT. B. Ekanayake Foundation (hereinafter referred to as“the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall bea body corporate with perpetual succession under thename and style of the “T. B. Ekanayake Foundation” andby that name may sue and be sued,with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to conduct special support services, to grant aid, togive prizes, to provide library facilities and

Incorporationof theT. B. EkanayakeFoundation.

Preamble.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

necessary incitement for study for the needystudents ;

(b)to carry out special support programmes for schoolchildren who sit national level examinations suchas the scholarship examination G. C. E. (OrdinaryLevel) examination and the G. C. E. (AdvancedLevel) examination ;

(c)to provide the modalities for evaluating culturalskills of school children and to confer awards andcertificates to children with aptitudes in order topromote their cultural skills ;

(d)to implement special training programmes whichwould inculcate social, religious values and ethicsamong the youth with a view to producing ageneration of youth who would give importance tosuch practices ;

(e)to conduct workshops, discussions and conferencesfor training teachers of Dhamma Schools and preschools and to encourage opening of new pre-schools ;

(f)to implement leadership camps and workshops forsenior students in order to mould them for leadershipand to educate them for successful living ;

(g)to implement practical programmes for promotingphysical health of student population throughsanitation and health practices programmes andsports ;

(h)to organize and operate educational tours,Shramadana campaigns and workshops in orderto create awareness on Sri Lanka heritage,environment, wildlife, population and patriotism ;

3T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

(i)to provide assistance and to encourage formingscout groups and platoons in schools ;

(j)to grant assistance for services rendered by SeniorCitizens Organizations and to encourage suchorganizations to continue such participation ;

(k)to grant support and assistance in carrying outinformal education programmes, special educationprogrammes and adult education programmes whichare in operation at present ;

(l)to organize awareness programmes on promotionalaspects to farmers engaged in traditional andexport agricultural activities and to improve theiractivities ;

(m)to take necessary action to provide requiredassistance and support and training to unemployedyouth in order to enable them to engage in selfemployment activities ;

(n)to work in collaboration with local and foreignorganizations the objects of which are similar tothose of the Corporation; and

(o)to promote special projects for protection of theenvironmental heritage, fauna and flora andendemic birds in the North Western Province.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall be managedby a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)consisting of eleven members including the President, theSecretary and the Treasurer to be elected subject to and inaccordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules madeunder section 6 of the Act.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1), the President of the Foundation shall be the first Presidentof the Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

(3) The first Board shall consist of the members of theGoverning Board holding office on the day preceding thedate of commencement of this Act.

(4) A member of the Board shall hold the office for aperiod of four years unless such member vacates the officeearlier by reason of such member’s death or resignation. Incase a vacancy occurs in the Board by reason of death orresignation of a member, such vacancy shall be filled byappointing a new member and such new member shall holdthe office for a period of four years.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,to accept and collect any grants or donations, to invest thefunds of the Corporation and to appoint, employ and dismissofficers and servents required for carrying out of all or anyone of the objects of the Corporation.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law on all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)classification of members, membership feespayable by members, admission, removal, expeland resignation of members ;

(b)procedure to be observed in summoning meetingsand in the transaction of business as meetings ofthe Corporation and the Directorate, the quorum of

General Powersof theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

such meetings and exercise of their powers anddischarge of their duties ;

(c)appointment of various officers, agents andservants, their powers, functions and duties ;

(d)administration and management of the property ofthe Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in the same manner it wasmade under subsection (1) at a like meeting.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund. Gifts,bequests, donations, contributions, charges and grants maybe deposited in any bank or several banks in the name of theCorporation as decided by the Board.

(2) All expenditure incurred in exercising and putting intopractice of powers and implementing activities of theCorporation under this Act shall be paid from the funds ofthe Corporation.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in lawto acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposeof the Corporation and subject to the rules made under section6, shall have full power to mortgage, sell, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

Debts payableby and payableto theCorporation.

The Corporationmay holdmovable orimmovableproperty.

Funds of theCorporation.

6T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

10. No member of the Corporation shall be liable to payany contribution exceeding the membership fees due fromthe Corporation, for the purpose of paying and settling debtsand liabilities of the Corporation.

11.In case of dissolution of the Corporation, whateverproperty left, after settlement of its debts and liabilities, shallnot be distributed among its members, but shall be transferredto any establishment or establishments objects of whichare identical to those of the Corporation and which prohibitthe distribution, of its income or property among itsmembers. Members of the Corporation shall, at or prior tothe dissolution of the Corporation, determine theestablishment or establishments to which such property shallbe transferred.

12.(1)The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2)The Board shall cause proper accounts to be kept ofits income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all othertransactions of the Corporation.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Board.

(4)In this section“qualified auditor” means-

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka, or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(b)a firm of accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka or of any other Institute

Limitationliability ofmembers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Accounting andauditing.

7T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute.

13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident and one member of the Board who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase of anyinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Seal of theCorporation.

8T. B. Ekanayake Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.