PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 18 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st of April, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 05, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2024

L.D.-O. 69/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTSORDINANCE (CHAPTER 117)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Registration ofDocuments (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than theprovisions of this section, shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may appoint by Order published in theGazette (in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

2. Section 8 of the Registration of DocumentsOrdinance (Chapter 117) (in this Act referred to as the“principal enactment”) is hereby amended in the proviso toparagraph (b) of that section, by the addition immediatelyafter subparagraph (xi) of that proviso, of the following newsubparagraph: -

“(xii) any agreement in relation to a transaction whichis subject to the provisions of the SecuredTransactions Act, No. 17 of 2024.”.

3. Chapter IV of the principal enactment (sections 16to 24 both inclusive) is hereby repealed.

4. The heading of Chapter V of the principal enactmentis hereby repealed and the following heading is substitutedtherefor: -

Amendment ofsection 8 ofChapter 117

Replacement ofthe heading ofChapter V of theprincipalenactment

Short title anddate ofoperation

Repeal ofChapter IV ofthe principalenactment

[Certified on 01st of April, 2024]

2Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2024

“CHAPTER VPROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS AFFECTING LAND’’

5. Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words “an instrumentaffecting land or a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale.”, of thewords “an instrument affecting land.”.

6. Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words “which affects land ormovable property”, of the words “which affectsland”; and

(2) by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor, of the followingmarginal note: -

7. Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words “instrumentsaffecting land and pledges, mortgages or bills of saleregistered by him”, of the words “instruments affecting landregistered by him”.

8. The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Part III of that Schedule, by thesubstitution in item 2 thereof, for the words and figures “anybook or index kept under Chapters III, IV, V, VI, for eachtransaction” of the words and figures “any book or indexkept under Chapter III, V or VI for each transaction”.

Amendment ofsection 25 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 29 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 41 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment

“Land situatedin severaldistricts.”.

3Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2024

9. (1) Where, on the appointed date, an instrumentcreating-

(a) a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movableproperty; or

(b) (i) an interest in a fixture of any immovableproperty; or

(ii) an assignment of a right to paymentunder a mortgage, charge or lease of anyimmovable property where the assignmentdoes not convey or transfer the assignor’sinterest in the immovable property,

which has been registered under Chapter IV of the principalenactment, is in force, such pledge, mortgage or bill of sale ofmovable property or such interest in a fixture of immovableproperty or such assignment of a right to payment under amortgage, charge or lease of immovable property shall, for aperiod of two years from the appointed date, continue to beenforceable, but shall be required to be registered underthe relevant provisions of the Secured Transactions Act,No. 17 of 2024 as a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movableproperty, or an interest in a fixture of immovable property oran assignment of a right to payment under a mortgage, chargeor lease of immovable property prior to the expiration of suchperiod of two years.

(2) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) shall, onbeing registered under the Secured TransactionsAct, No. 17 of 2024, be deemed to have been perfected fromthe date on which such instrument initially became legallyenforceable, and the priority which such instrument becameentitled to at the time it initially became legally enforceable,shall continue to prevail.

Enforceabilityof instrumentsregistered underChapter IV ofthe principalenactment

4Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2024

(3) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) whichis not registered under the Secured TransactionsAct, No. 17 of 2024 prior to the expiration of two years fromthe appointed date, shall become legally unenforceable afterthe expiration of such period.

10. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

5Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.