SAREERAM SRI LANKA NATIONALFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 1 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 10th February, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1999

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Internet Version

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 19991

[Certified on 10th February, 1999]

L.D.–O.28/96.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAREERAM SRI LANKANATIONAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association Called and Known as the“Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation” has heretoforebeen formed at Thalankudah, Araipattai, Batticaloa Districtfor the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Associationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccesfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the Sareeram Sri Lanka NationalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,Such and so many persons as now are members of theSareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession, under the named andstyle of the “Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that namemay sue, and sued in all courts, with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and to change and alter thesame at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe SareeramSri LankaNationalFoundation.

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 19992

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be–

(a) To maintain peace and harmony among all thecommunities ;

(b) to promote the eradication, racial, linguistic,religious, political and communal differences amongthe people ;

(c) to promote the establishment of a society unitingthe different religious, cultural and economicgroups ;

(d) to bring the poor and other affected people into the“Awareness Scheme” and encourage them to engagein self employment programmes :

(e) to encourage and accelerate savings among thepeople in rural areas ;

(f) to create awareness in the public, about theimportance of school education, health educationand environmental education ; and

(g) to do all such other acts and things as are incidentalor conducive to the attainment of the above objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten Law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation, or any oneof them, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without securityto receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 19993

5. (1) the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a committee of Management consisting ofthe president, the secretary and the treasurer of theCorporation and not less than sixteen other persons to beelected in accordance with the rules in force for the time beingof the Corporation.

(2) The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the members of the Committee ofManagement of the Foundation holding office on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whosenames are specified in the Schedule to this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at an annual general meeting or at any general meetingof the members summoned for that purpose with two weeks’notice and by a majority of votes not less than two-thirds ofthe members present and voting, to make rules, notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any otherwritten law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion ofmembers of the Corporation, for the election of office bearersand the Committee of Management, for the procedure to befollowed in the transaction of the business by the Committeeof Managment, and otherwise generally, for the managementof the affairs of the Corporation and for the accomplishmentof its objects. Such rules when made may at a like meetingand in like manner, be altered, added, amended or rescinded.

(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject torules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted, and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 19994

8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject tothe rules inforce for the time being of the Corporation with fullpower to mortgage, sell, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of the presidentand such number of persons as may be provided for in therules of the corporation, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,orof any other persons,except such as are mentioned in this Actand those claiming by, from,or under, them.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Corporation mayhold movable orimmovableproperty.

Seal of theCorporation.

Savings of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 19995

SCHEDULE[Section 5(2)]

PresidentMr. A. Logeswaran

Vice Presidents :Mr. A. SivalingamMrs. L. AnanthyMr. M. Kasipillai

General Secretary :Mr. K. Vanniyasingam

Additional Secretaries : Mr. A. KrisnamoorthyMr. M. PusparajMr. M. Suntharalingam

Treasurer :Mr. K. Vellaisamy

Executive Members :Mr. S.K. PonnampalamMr. V. JesudasanMr. T.BaptistMr. K. LinkarajMiss T. ShiyamalaMr. T. SittampalamMiss N. NishiyanthyMiss M. Dilani

Advisery :Mr. K. ThangarajahMr. R. ThurairajasingamMr. G. Radhakrishnam

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.