PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PAHALAGAMA SRI SOMARATHANANAYAKA THERO FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 35 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2011

1Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2011

Short title.

Preamble.

2—PL 004923 —3,090 (06/2010)

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

L.D.—O. (INC) 12/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PAHALAGAMA SRI SOMARATHANANAYAKA THERO FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero Foundation”has heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the Foundation, according to the rules agreed to, by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has applied to beincorporated in order to enable it more effectively to carryout and fulfil the several objects and purposes for which itwas formed and it will be expedient to grant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the PahalagamaSri Somarathana Nayaka Thero Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of thePahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referredto as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, underthe name and style of the “Pahalagama Sri SomarathanaNayaka Thero Foundation” and by that name may sue andbe sued in all courts, with full power and authority to haveand use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to conduct Dhamma sermons, discussions andseminars;

Incorporation ofthe PahalagamaSri SomarathanaNayaka TheroFoundation.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 20112

(b)to print, publish and distribute books, magazines,journals, papers and programmes relating toBuddhism;

(c)to set up and maintain reading halls, lecture halls,and academic institutions for the study, promotionand propagation of Buddhism;

(d)to organize and conduct activities for thepreservation of Buddhist culture and moraldevelopment;

(e)to take steps to improve the way of life of adherentsof the Buddhist faith;

(f)to promote national Buddhist customs and toimprove the spiritual and social values of adherentsof the Buddhist faith;

(g)to assist the younger generation of adherents of theBuddhist faith to face up to social and economichardships;

(h)to conduct social service activities in accordancewith Buddhist principles and to encourage theadherents of the Buddhist faith to engage in suchactivities; and

(i)to establish and maintain institutions foreducational and social service activities for theadherents of the Buddhist faith.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, or other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power to do, performand execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever asare necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtheranceof the objects of the Corporation or any one of them,including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,

General Powersof theCorporation.

3Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2011

to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe rules made under section 6 be administered by aCommittee of Management consisting of the Director-General, the Honorary Secretary and the Honorary Treasurerand not less than six other members as may be provided forin those rules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Rev.Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero shall be theChairman of the Committee of Management for life. TheChairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of theCorporation.

(3) The first Committee of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Committee of Managementof the Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office bearers, resignation orvacation of, or removal from office of office-bearersand their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee ofManagement and its powers, conduct and duties;

(d)the procedure to be observed at, and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation,

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 20114

Committee of Management or any sub-committeeand of the time, places, notices and agenda, of suchmeetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct ofbusiness thereof;

(e)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and alldebts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payableto the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, lease or testamentary disposition or otherwise and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act and subject to the rules of theCorporation made under section 6 with full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

5Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2011

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way oftestamentary dispositions, donations, contributions andfees deposited in the name of the Corporation in one ormore banks as may be decided by the Committee ofManagement.

(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, all sums ofmoneys to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all moneys received and expended by theCorporation.

(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year and thecorrectness of income and expenditure account and thebalance sheet certified by a qualified auditor appointed bythe Committee of Management.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudit.

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 20116

11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theHonorary Secretary of the Committee of Management andsuch other person duly authorised by the Committee ofManagement who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among their members. Such institution orinstitutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at, or immediately before, the time of dissolutionof the Corporate.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic, orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

7Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka TheroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.