PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29, 2006

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

NAWALAPITIYA DHARUL ULOOM ALHASHIMIYA ARABIC COLLEGE(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 33 OF 2006

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 20061

Preamble.

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

L. D. — O. Inc. 8/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NAWALAPITIYA DHARUL ULOOM ALHASHIMIYA ARABIC COLLEGE

WHEREAS a college known as “Nawalapitiya Dharul UloomAl Hashimiya Arabic College” has heretofore been formed inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidcollege, according to the rules agreed to by the Board ofManagement of the College :

AND WHEREAS the said college has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for public advantage to grant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Nawalapitiya DharulUloom Al Hashimiya Arabic College (Incorporation) Act,No. 33 of 2006.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theNawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya Arabic College(hereinafter referred to as the “College”) and shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of “the NawalapitiyaDharul Uloom Al Hashimiya Arabic College” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sueand be sued in all courts, with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofNawalapitiyaDharul Uloom AlHashimiyaArabic College.

Short title

2Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to produce Islamic Theologists who are competentto lead the community under the Islamic law of“Shariaa” on all spheres of life ;

(b)to produce “Hafidhs” who have learnt the HolyQuran by heart;

(c)to protect Islam;

(d)to promote and foster unity within the Islamiccommunity and find solutions of problems of suchcommunity;

(e)to promote the policies of “Sunnath Wal Jamaath”within the Islamic community;

(f)to promote and foster the policies of the “Sunnathwal Jamaath” based on holy propagation of“Thableegu” with the “Fikh” (concepts of the Schoolof Thought) laws of the “Shafiee Madhhab” and thebelif in “Al Ashariya”; and

(g)to do all such acts and things as are in the opinion ofthe Corporation connected to any of the above andbeneficial to the growth of the College.

4.(1) The management, control and administrations ofthe Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of elevenmembers elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation from among persons who shall be leaders in thecommunity and theologians, including the President, vicePresident, two joint Secretaries, the Treasurer, the AssistantSecretary, the Assistant Treasurer and Four Committeemembers. One of the Joint Secretaries shall be a teacher in thecollege.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 20063

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the College holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act and which shall hold office until a new Board ofManagement is elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

(3) The office bearers of the Corporation shall hold officefor a term of one year and be eligible for re-election;

5.A committee member shall—

(a)be a person who lives within the bounds of theIslamic law of “Shariaa”;

(b)be a person of good character and will be respectedby the Islamic Community; and

(c)be a person who respects the law of “Shariaa” andthe Theologians.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, as are necessary or desirablefor the promotion of furtherance of the objects of thecorporation or any one of them, including the power to open,operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise any moneywith or without security, to receive or collect grants anddonations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ anddismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out ofthe objects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any general meeting and by the vote of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the admission, resignation and expulsion ofmembers of the Corporation;

Qualificationsof thecommitteemembers.

Generalpowers of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006

(b)election of office bearers;

(c)powers, duties and functions of the Board ofDirectors and office-bearers of the Corporation;

(d)the conduct of meetings of the Board ofManagement and the procedures to be followed atsuch meetings and the quorum of such meetings;

(e)appointment of employees of the Corporation andtheir duties and functions; and the code of conductto be observed by such employees;

(f)courses of studies to be conducted, syllabuses ofstudies, examinations and award of certificates, inso far as such rules do not conflict with the nationalor provincial education policy;”

(g)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds; and

(h)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the attainment of its objects.

(2)The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

(3)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in the manner as a rule may bemade under subsection (1).

8.All debts and liabilities of the College existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due, subscriptions and contributions payable to theCollege on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurpose of this Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe College.

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 20065

9.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thepersons duly authorized by the Board, who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute.

11.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition orotherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

Seal of theCorporation.

Accounts oftheCorporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

6Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by rules prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

13.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the republic or of any body politic or corporateor any other person.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of therepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al HashimiyaArabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 20067

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.