PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE BHAGAWANSRI SATHYA SAI CENTRAL TRUST OFSRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 38 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th September, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2007

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

1

[Certified on 24th September, 2007]

L.D.—O. INC-9/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THEBHAGAVAN SRI SATHYA SAI CENTRAL TRUST OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a Trust called and known as the “The Boardof Trustees of the Bhagavan Sri Sathya Sai Central Trustof Sri Lanka” has heretofore been established in Colombofor the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Trust :

AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said Trusthas heretofore successfully carried out and transactedthe several objects and matters for which the said Trustwas established and has applied to be incorporated and itwill be for the public advantage to grant the application:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1.This Act may be cited as the Board of Trustees ofthe Bhagavan Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation ) Act, No. 38 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct such and so many persons as now are members of theBoard of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya Sai CentralTrust of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Trust”)or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Board ofTrustees of the said Trust shall be a body corporate withthe perpetual succession under the name and style of the“Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya Sai CentralTrust of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as “theCorporation” ) and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and to use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Board ofTrustees of theBhagavan SriSathya SaiCentral Trust ofSri Lanka.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

2

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be –

(i)to carry the message and teachings of BhagavanSri Sathya Sai Baba ;

(ii)to promote through practice and example the basicprinciples of Sathya (Truth), Dharma(Righteousness), Shanthi (Peace), Prema (Love)and Ahimsa (Non Violence) set by Bhagawan SriSathya Sai Baba ;

(iii)to promote the knowledge of Vedas, Upanishads,Shastras, Purans and other literature of the SanathanaDharma ;

(iv)to promote the study of the Noble, sublime andhighest ethical principles of all great religions ofthe world and the spirituallty which is the true basisof all such religions ;

(v)to promote inter-religious harmony ;

(vi)to promote peace and goodwill among mankind ;

(vii)to provide scholarships to deserving students at anyschool, college, university or any Institute approvedby the Trust ;

(viii)to assist needy students by providing books,instruments, apparel, loans and grants in cash ;

(ix)to conduct study classes, lectures, seminars, study-tours and engage in such other activities as maypromote the advancement of education ;

(x)to provide homes for the needy and indigent, agedand disabled and orphan children ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

3

(xi)to provide food rations, meals, clothing and otherassistances to persons in distress ;

(xii)to build, establish and provide hospitals andclinics for the treatment of sick persons ;

(xiii)to provide medicines and medical treatment tosick persons ;

(xiv)to conduct exhibitions and engage in activitieswhich may promote health, social welfare andsocial rehabilitation and prevent the spread ofdiseases ; and

(xv)to co-ordinate with other Trusts of the Sri SathyaSai Organization of Sri Lanka, that are now inexistence or be constituted hereafter.

4.(1) The administration, management and controlof the Corporation shall be vested in a Board of Trustees(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting ofeleven members elected in accordance with the rules ofthe Corporation, including—

(a) the Chairman of the Corporation ;

(b) the General Secretary of the Corporation ; and

(c) the Treasurer of the Corporation.

(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shallbe the Board of Trustees of the Trust holding office onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actwhich shall hold office untill a new Board of Trustee iselected in and accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

Constitution ofthe Board ofTrustees.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

4

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the followingpowers which shall be exercised by the Board :—

(a)to receive or collect grants, gifts or donations orsubsidies whether in cash or otherwise from localor foreign sources ;

(b)to acquire and hold , take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose ofany property, movable or immovable ;

(c)to give grants, endowments or loans for thefutherance of the objects of the Corporation ;

(d)to open and operate bank accounts and to draw,make, accept, endorse and negotiate cheques,promissory notes, bills of exchange andnegotiable instruments ;

(e)to appoint, employ and dismiss, such officers andservants as may be necessary for carrying out theobjects of the Corporation, on such terms andconditions and at such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Board ;

(f)to invest funds belonging to the Corporation insuch securities as may be determined by theBoard ; and

(g)to do all such other acts or things as may benecessary for the attainment of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time at a general meeting of the members and by votesof two-thirds of the members present and voting to make

Rules of theCorporation.

General powers ofthe Corporation.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

5

such rules not inconsistent with the provisions of the Actor any other written law for all or any of the followingmatters :-

(a)the term of office of the members of the Boardand the resignation or removal from office ofsuch members, the filling of vacancies andelection of such members ;

(b)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation including their terms and conditionsof service ;

(c)the procedure to be followed at the meetings ofthe Board, the summoning and the quorum ofsuch meetings and the conduct of businessthereat;

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;and

(e)such other things as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects of the Trust.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amendedor rescinded in like manner as a rule may be made undersubsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Fund of the Corporation (hereinafter referredto as the “Trust Fund”) shall consist of—

(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Trust on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act ; and

(b) all moneys that may accrue to the Corporation afterthe date of commencement of this Act.

Fund of theCorporation.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

6

(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Trust Fundshall be utilized to defray the expenses incurred in themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by theCorporation.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a) an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due by andsubscriptions and contributions payable to the Trust onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposeof this Act.

Audit ofaccounts.

Debts due by orpayable to theTrust.

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri SathyaSai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No, 38 of 2007

7

10.The seal of the Corporation—

(a)shall be in custody of such persons as theBoard may from time to time determine ;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board ; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except with the sanction of the Boardand in the presence of at least two members ofthe Board who shall sign the instrument ordocument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing ofany person as a witness.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its members.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION,NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.