PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 37.75 Postage : Rs. 11.25

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 17th March, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

CONSUMER AFFAIRS AUTHORITY ACT, No. 9 OF 2003

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 20031

Establishment ofthe ConsumerAffairs Authority.

[Certified on 17th March, 2003]

L.D.—O. 27/97.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSUMERAFFAIRS AUTHORITY ; FOR THE PROMOTION OF EFFECTIVE

COMPETITION AND THE PROTECTION OF CONSUMERS ; FOR THE

REGULATION OF INTERNAL TRADE ; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF

A CONSUMER AFFAIRS COUNCIL ; FOR THE REPEAL OF THECONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, NO. 1 OF 1979, THE FAIR TRADINGCOMMISSION ACT, NO. 1 OF 1987 AND THE CONTROL OF PRICESACT (CHAPTER 173) ; AND FOR ALL MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS it is the policy of the Government of Sri Lankato provide for the better protection of consumers through theregulation of trade and the prices of goods and services andto protect traders and manufacturers against unfair tradepractices and restrictive trade practices :

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka is alsodesirous of promoting competitive pricing wherever possibleand ensure healthy competition among traders andmanufacturers of goods and services :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament ofthe Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka asfollows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Consumer AffairsAuthority Act, No. 9 of 2003.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSUMER AFFAIRS AUTHORITY

2.(1) An authority called the Consumer AffairsAuthority (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”) is herebyestablished which shall consist of the persons who are for thetime being members of the Authority under section 3.

2—H 017420–5,600 (2002/11)

Short title.

Preamble.

2Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

Chairman and fulltime members.

(2)The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.(1)The Authority shall consist of a Chairman andnot less than ten other members who shall be appointed bythe Minister from among persons who possess recognizedqualifications, have had wide experience and havedistinguished themselves in the field of industry, law,economics, commerce, administration, accountancy, scienceor health.

(2)The Chairman and three of the members, selected bythe Minister from among the members appointed undersubsection (1), shall be full time members (hereinafter referredto as “full-time members of the Authority”).

(3)The members of the Authority other than theChairman and the three full time members of the Authorityshall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by theMinister in consultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

(4)The provisions of the Schedule to this Act, shall haveeffect in relation to the term of office of the members of theAuthority, the meetings and seal of the Authority.

4.The Chairman and the full time members of theAuthority shall each hold office for a period of three yearsfrom the date of their respective appointments, and shall bepaid for their services such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Minister in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

5.The Director-General of the Authority appointed undersection 52, shall act as the Secretary to the Authority.

Constitution of theAuthority.

Director-Generalto act as theSecretary to theAuthority.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 20033

Delegation ofpowers to publicofficers.

Objects of theAuthority.

6.The Authority may for the purpose of discharging itsfunctions under this Act, delegate to any public officer byname or office such functions vested in, or imposed upon, orassigned to the Authority by or under this Act, on such termsand conditions as may be agreed upon between such officerand the Authority.

7.The objects of the Authority shall be—

(a)to protect consumers against the marketing of goodsor the provision of services which are hazardous tolife and property of consumers ;

(b)to protect consumers against unfair trade practicesand guarantee that consumers interest shall be givendue consideration ;

(c)to ensure that wherever possible consumers haveadequate access to goods and services at competitiveprices ; and

(d)to seek redress against unfair trade practices,restrictive trade practices or any other forms ofexploitation of consumers by traders.

8.The functions of the Authority shall be to—

(a)control or eliminate—

(i)restrictive trade agreements amongenterprises ;

(ii)arrangements amongst enterprises with regardto prices ;

(iii)abuse of a dominant position with regard todomestic trade or economic developmentwithin the market or in a substantial part ofthe market ; or

(iv)any restraint of competition adversely affectingdomestic or international trade or economicdevelopment ;

Functions of theAuthority.

4Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(b)investigate or inquire into anti-competitive practicesand abuse of a dominant position ;

(c)maintain and promote effective competition betweenpersons supplying goods and services ;

(d)promote and protect the rights and interests ofconsumers, purchasers and other users of goods andservices in respect of the price, availability andquality of such goods and services and the varietysupplied ;

(e)to keep consumers informed about the quality,quantity, potency, purity, standards and price ofgoods and services made available for purchase ;

(f)carry out investigations and inquiries in relation toany matter specified in this Act ;

(g)promote competitive prices in markets wherecompetition is less than effective ;

(h)undertake studies, publish reports and provideinformation to the public relating to marketconditions and consumer affairs ;

(i)undertake public sector and private sector efficiencystudies ;

(j)promote consumer education with regard to goodhealth, safety and security of consumers ;

(k)promote the exchange of information relating tomarket conditions and consumer affairs with otherinstitutions ;

(l)promote, assist and encourage the establishment ofconsumer organizations ;

(m)charge such fees in respect of any services renderedby the Authority ;

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 20035

Authority mayundertake studieson the distributionof goods andservices.

Authority to issuedirections tomanufacturers ortraders in respectof price marking,labelling andpacketing ofgoods.

(n)appoint any such committee or committees as maybe necessary to facilitate the discharge of thefunctions of the Authority ; and

(o)do all such other acts as may be necessary forattainment of the objects of the Authority and forthe effective discharge of the functions of suchAuthority.

PART II

REGULATION OF TRADE

9.The Authority may—

(a)undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supplyof any class of goods and services as would ensurethe availability to the consumer of such goods andservices of satisfactory quality at reasonable pricesand in adequate quantities ;

(b)promote, assist and encourage the State or otherorganisations including organisations of consumers,for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and

(c)assist and encourage associations of traders to enterinto agreements with the Authority for the purposesdescribed in section 14.

10.(1) The Authority may, for the protection of theconsumer—

(a)issue general directions to manufacturers or tradersin respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, saleor manufacture of any goods ; and

(b)issue special directions to any class of manufacturersor traders, specifying—

(i)the times during which and the places at which,such goods may be sold ; and

6Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(ii)any other conditions as to the manufacturing,importing, marketing, storing, selling andstocking, of any goods.

(2) Every direction issued by the Authority undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and in at leastone Sinhala, one Tamil and one English newspaper.

(3) Any manufacturer or trader who fails to comply withany direction issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act.

(4) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases ordefaces any label, description or price mark on any goods inrespect of which a direction under subsection (1) has beenissued, or sells or offers for sale any such goods from or onwhich the label, description or price mark has been removed,altered, obliterated, erased or defaced, shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act.

11.Any person who sells or offers to sell any goods abovethe price marked on the goods in accordance with a directionissued under section 10, shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act.

12.(1) The Authority may for the purpose of protectingthe consumer and ensuring the quality of goods sold or servicesprovided, by Notification published in the Gazette, from timeto time, determine such standards and specifications relating tothe production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation andsale of any goods, and to the supply of any services.

(2) The Authority may by Notification published in theGazette adopt such standards and specifications prescribedby the Sri Lanka Standards Institution established by theSri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984, relatingto the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportationand sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services, asstandards and specifications, to be determined undersubsection (1).

Selling or offeringto sell above themarked price.

Determiningstandards andspecificationsrelating to goodsand supply ofservices.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 20037

Authority toinquire intocomplaints.

13.(1) The Authority may inquire into complaintsregarding—

(a)the production, manufacture, supply, storage,transportation or sale of any goods and to the supplyof any services which does not conform to thestandards and specifications determined undersection 12 ; and

(b)the manufacture or sale of any goods which doesnot conform to the warranty or guarantee given byimplication or otherwise, by the manufacturer ortrader.

(2) A complaint under subsection (1) which relates to thesale of any goods or to the provision of any service shall bemade to the Authority in writing within three months of thesale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as thecase may be.

(3) At any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection(1), the Authority shall give the manufacturer or trader againstwhom such complaint is made an opportunity of being heardeither in person or by an agent nominated in that behalf.

(4) Where after an inquiry into a complaint, the Authorityis of opinion that a manufacture or sale of any goods or theprovision of any services has been made which does not conformto the standards or specifications determined or deemed to bedetermined by the Authority, or that a manufacture or sale hasbeen made of any goods not conforming to any warranty orguarantee given by implication or otherwise by themanufacturer or trader, it shall order the manufacturer or traderto pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace suchgoods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or theprovision of such service, as the case may be.

(5) An order under subsection (4) shall be made in writingand be communicated to such manufacturer or trader byregistered post.

8Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(6)Where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses tocomply with an order made under subsection (4) of thissection, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and the sum of money due on the orderas compensation or refund may, on application being madein that behalf by the Authority to the Magistrate’s Court havingjurisdiction over the place of business or residence of suchmanufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered inlike manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstandingthat such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which thatcourt may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, impose.

14.(1) The Authority may enter into such writtenagreements as it may deem necessary, with any manufactureror trader or with any association of manufacturers or tradersto provide for—

(a)the maximum price above which any goods shallnot be sold;

(b)the standards and specifications of any goodsmanufactured, sold or offered for sale ;

(c)any other conditions as to the manufacture, import,supply, storage, distribution, transportation,marketing, labelling or sale of any goods.

(2)Every written agreement entered into undersubsection (1) between the Authority and any manufactureror trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders,shall be binding on every authorised distributor of suchmanufacturer or trader and every member of such association,as though he was a party to such agreement and whether ornot he was a member at the time of entering into the agreement.

(3) Every manufacturer or trader or any authoriseddistributor of such manufacturer or trader or any associationof manufacturers or traders or any member thereof, whocontravenes any provision of any agreement entered into withthe Authority under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

Agreement toprovide formaximum price&c. of goods.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 20039

Refusal to sellgoods to be anoffence.

(4)Every agreement entered into with the Authorityunder subsection (1), shall be registered with the Authorityand shall contain a schedule giving the name and descriptionof each authorised distributor of such manufacturer or traderor members of such association, as the case may be.

(5)Every agreement entered into with the Authorityunder subsection (1), shall come into force from the date ofsuch agreement, unless such agreement provides that theagreement shall come into force on any subsequent date.

(6) Where the Authority thinks fit, it may cause anyagreement made under this section to be published in theGazette. Where an agreement is published in the Gazette, theproduction of a copy of the Gazette in which such agreementis published shall, until the contrary is proved, be proof of thecontents of such agreement.

(7)For the purpose of any prosecution under this section,a certificate given by the Authority that any person is anauthorised distributor of any manufacturer or trader or is amember of any association of traders or manufacturers shallbe admissible and be prima facie proof in a court of law thatsuch person is an authorised distributor of such manufactureror trader or a member of such association.

15.(1) No trader who has in his possession or custodyor under his control any goods for purpose of trade withinSri Lanka, shall refuse to sell such goods.

(2) In any prosecution of any trader for the contraventionof the provisions of subsection (1), it shall be a sufficientdefence for the accused to prove that —

(a)on the occasion in question, he supplied a reasonablequantity of the goods, or had not a sufficient quantityin his possession to supply the quantity;

(b)he carried on business in the goods as a wholesaletrader only, and that the sale of the quantitydemanded by the buyer would have been contraryto the normal practice of a wholesale business ; or

10Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(c)the sale of the goods on that occasion in questionwould have been contrary to any provisions of anywritten law or any general or special direction issuedto him by the Authority under section 10.

16.No trader who has in his possession or custody orunder his control any goods for purpose of trade within SriLanka, shall —

(a)deny the possession of such goods ; or

(b)offer such goods for sale subject to a conditionrequiring the purchase of any other goods or themaking of any payment in respect of any service orto any other condition, other than the condition thatthe buyer shall pay the price of such goods forthwith.

17.(1) No trader shall conceal in his place of businessor in any other place, any goods in such quantity as is in excessof the normal trading requirements of such trader.

(2) No trader shall have in his possession or custody orunder his control in his place of business or in any other place,any goods in such quantity in excess of —

(a)the quantity required for his personal consumptionand of the members of his household ; or

(b)the requirements of the normal trading activities ofsuch trader.

(3) No person other than a trader shall have in hispossession or custody or under his control any goods in suchquantity in excess of the normal personal requirements of suchperson.

18.(1) Where the Minister is of opinion that any goodsor any service is essential to the life of the community or partthereof, the Minister in consultation with the Authority mayby Order published in the Gazette prescribe such goods orsuch service as specified goods or specified service as thecase may be.

Denial ofpossession of anygoods forpurposes of tradeor the sale of suchgoods subject toany condition tobe an offence.

Hoarding of goodsby any trader orperson to be anoffence.

Increase of retailor wholesale priceof certain goodsand certainservices.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200311

Director-Generalto refer matters tothe Council.

(2) No manufacturer or trader shall increase the retail orwholesale price of any goods or any service specified undersubsection (1), except with the prior written approval of theAuthority.

(3) A manufacturer or trader who seeks to obtain theapproval of the Authority under subsection (2), shall make anapplication in that behalf to the Authority, and the Authorityshall, after holding such inquiry as it may considerappropriate :—

(a)approve such increase where it is satisfied that theincrease is reasonable ; or

(b)approve any other increase as the Authority mayconsider reasonable,

and inform the manufacturer or trader of its decision withinthirty days of the receipt of such application.

(4) Where the Authority fails to give a decision withinthirty days of the receipt of an application as required undersubsection (3), the manufacturer or trader who made theapplication shall be entitled to, notwithstanding the provisionsof subsection (1), increase the price :

Provided however, where the delay in giving its decisionwithin the stipulated period was due to the failure of themanufacturer or trader to give any assistance required by theAuthority in carrying out its inquiry into the application, theAuthority shall have the power to make an interim orderpreventing the said manufacturer or trader from increasing theprice, until the Authority makes its decision on the application.

19.(1) Where it appears to the Director-General that anygoods are being sold or any services are being provided by amanufacturer or trader at an excessive price or any marketmanipulation or other market imperfection exists in respectof such goods or services provided by such manufacturer ortrader, the Director-General may, in consultation with theAuthority as he may deem necessary and having regard towhether —

12Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(a)the sale of such goods or the provision of suchservices is of general economic importance ; or

(b)any category of consumers are significantly affectedby such excessive price,

refer such matter to the Council for investigation and report.

(2)The Council shall conclude its investigation and submitits report to the Director-General within two months of suchreference being made to it by the Director-General.

20.(1) Where any reference is made to the Council bythe Director-General under section 19, the Council shall causesuch reference to be brought to the notice of such persons,who in the opinion of the Council would have an interest inthe proposed investigation to be carried out by it on suchreference, and shall further give such persons adequate noticeof the date on which the investigation is scheduled tocommence.

(2) For the purpose of carrying out an investigation, theCouncil may by notice in writing require any person or anyone authorized by such person, to produce such documentsas may be specified in the notice, and at such time and placeas mentioned therein, which are under the custody or controlof such person and which relates to the matter underinvestigation.

(3) At the conclusion of an investigation, the Council shall,subject to the provisions of section 21, cause its decision withits reasons to be published in such manner as it shall considerappropriate, and submit a report on such investigation to theDirector-General as required under subsection (2) ofsection 19.

(4) Where the Council concludes that the goods are beingsold or the services are being provided at an excessive price,it shall recommend to the Authority in writing the maximumprice above which such goods should not be sold or suchservices should not be provided or the price structure inaccordance with which such maximum price shall be fixed.

Investigation intoa reference madeunder section 19.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200313

Undertaking to begiven on areference made.

(5) On receipt of the recommendations of the Councilunder subsection (4), the Authority shall, by order publishedin the Gazette, fix the maximum price above which the goodsshall not be sold or the services shall not be provided. Everyorder made under this subsection shall come into operationon the date of publication of such Order in the Gazette.

(6)Nothing in this section shall be construed asprecluding the Council from proceeding with a subsequentinvestigation which relates wholly or partly to the same matterwhich was the subject matter of a previous investigationcarried out under this section.

(7)Any person aggrived by an order made by theAuthority under subsection (5) may appeal against suchdecision to the Court of Appeal.

(8)Any document produced in compliance with a noticeissued under subsection (2) shall be considered confidential,and nothing contained in such document shall be disclosed toany person by the Council, except where it is required to doso under any law.

21.(1) At anytime before making a recommendationunder subsection (4) of section 20, the Council may acceptany undertaking offered by a manufacturer or trader in respectof whom the investigation is being carried out, regarding theprice at which the goods shall be sold or services shall beprovided as the case may be, by such manufacturer or trader.

(2) Where an undertaking given under subsection (1) isaccepted, it shall be the duty of the Council to —

(a)give adequate publicity to such undertaking in amanner it considers appropriate ;

(b)periodically review the implementation of suchundertaking ;

(c)consider whether, by reason of any change in thecircumstances —

14Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(i)the undertaking has become no longerappropriate and as such the person should bereleased from his duty to implement theundertaking ;

(ii)whether any changes should be made to theundertaking ; or

(iii)whether the existing undertaking should bereplaced by a fresh undertaking ; and

(d)give notice to the person giving such undertaking,of any failure or shortcoming of such person inimplementing the undertaking.

(3) Where the Council is of the view that action should betaken under paragraph (c) of subsection (2), the Council shallissue a notice to the person who entered into theundertaking, informing such person—

(a)of the changes required to be made to theundertaking ;

(b)of the requirements of the fresh undertaking whichshould replace the existing undertaking ; or

(c)of his release from the duty of implementing theundertaking.

(4) The Council shall, after issue of a notice undersubsection (3), make a fresh decision—

(a)agreeing to a fresh undertaking, or to the undertakingbeing changed, in accordance with therecommendations made by the Council ; or

(b)agreeing to a fresh undertaking or to the undertakingbeing changed as offered by the trader ormanufacturer on his own initiative.

(5) Where an undertaking given by a manufacturer ortrader is accepted by the Council under this section, anyviolation of such undertaking by that manufactuer or trader,shall be an offence under this Act.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200315

Members of thepublic,associations ororganizations torefer certainmatters to theDirector-General.

Trader to displayprice list.

Advisoryreference.

Publication of areport made underthis Act.

22.(1) Where goods are being sold or services are beingprovided at an excessive price and any member of the publicor any association of persons or any organisation wish theCouncil to investigate into the matter, such member of thepublic, association or organization, as the case may be, mayrequest the Director-General to refer the matter to the Councilfor investigation.

(2)On receipt of a request under subsection (1) theDirector-General may, where he is of the opinion that it is amatter which, having regard to the provisions of section 19should be investigated into by the Council, refer the matter tothe Council for investigation and the provisions of sections20 and 21 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to,such investigation.

23.The Minister may, either of his own motion or onrepresentations made to him by a person or body of persons,refer any question relating to the price of any goods or thecharge for any service, to the Authority for examination andreport, and accordingly, the Authority shall examine suchquestion and send its report to the Minister within one monthfrom the date of receipt of such reference.

24.The Authority may, either of its own motion or onrepresentations made to it by any person or body of persons,review any question relating to the price of any goods or thecharge for any service and report thereon to the Minister.

25.The Minister may cause to be published any reportmade to him under the provisions of this Act, or anyrecommendations made in such report, in such manner as hethinks fit.

26.(1) Every trader shall exhibit conspicuously in hisplace of business, a notice specifying the maximum retail orwholesale price, as the case may be, of goods available forsale in his place of business other than the price of any goods,the price of which is marked on the goods itself or on thewrapper or pack containing it or marked in any other manneras may be required by any law.

Authority toreview questionsrelating to pricesof goods &c.

16Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(2) A complete list of the price of goods available for saleshall be kept within the place of business at all times forinspection whenever required.

27.Every trader shall, register with the Authority onpayment of an annual fee of a sum not exceeding rupees onehundred thousand as may be determined by the Minister, inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

28.Every trader who sells any goods shall on demand,issue to the purchaser thereof, a receipt setting out—

(a)the date of the sale;

(b)the quantity of goods sold ;

(c)the price paid for such quantity;

(d)nature of the transaction, that is to say, whether thesale was wholesale or retail; and

(e)any other requirements that may be imposed underany law relating to the issue of receipts by a trader.

29.(1) Every trader shall keep in conspicuous place inhis place of business, a notice board for the display of anynotice, direction or warning issued by the Authority underthis Act.

(2) Every trader shall affix or cause to be affixed on suchnotice board any notice, direction or warning issued to suchtrader by the Authority under this Act.

(3) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases ordefaces such notice, direction or warning other than a personacting under the direction or authority of the Authority, shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act.

30.No trader shall, in the course of a trade or business,engage in any type of conduct that is misleading or deceptiveor is likely to mislead or deceive the consumer or any othertrader.

Registration oftraders.

Trader to issuereceipts topurchasers.

Trader to furnishnotice board.

Misleading ordeceptive conduct.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200317

31.Any trader who, in the course of a trade or business,in connection with the supply or possible supply of goods orservices or in connection with the promotion by any meansof the supply or use of goods or services—

(a)falsely represents that goods or services are of aparticular standard, quality or grade, or that goodsare of a particular style or model ;

(b)falsely represents that goods are new ;

(c)represents that goods or services have sponsorship,approval, performance, characteristics accessories,uses or benefits they do not have ;

(d)represents that such trader has a sponsorship approvalor affiliation he does not have ;

(e)makes false or misleading statements concerning theexistence of, or amounts of price reduction or priceincrease ;

(f)makes false or misleading statements concerning theneed for any goods, services, replacements orrepairs ; or

(g)makes false or misleading statements concerning theexistence or effect of any warranty or guarantee,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

32.(1) In every contract for the supply of goods or forthe provision of services by any person in the course of abusiness of supply of such goods or provisions of such servicesto a consumer, there is an implied warranty that—

(a)the services will be provided with due care and skill ;

(b)that any materials supplied in connection withprovision of such services will be reasonably fit forthe purpose for which they are supplied ;

(c)the goods supplied or services provided will be inconformity with the standards and specificationsdetermined under section 12 of this Act ; and

Falserepresentations.

Warranties inrelation to thesupply of goodsor services.

18Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(d)the goods supplied will be reasonably fit for thepurpose for which they are supplied.

(2) Where a trader or any person other than a tradersupplies any goods or provides any service to a consumer inthe course of a business and the consumer, expressly or byimplication, makes known to the trader or other person ofany particular purpose for which the goods or services arerequired or the result that he desire the service to achieve,there is an implied warranty that the services provided underthe contract for the provision of such services and anymaterials supplied in connection with those services will bereasonably fit for that purpose or are of such a nature andquality that they might reasonably be expected to achieve thatresult, except where circumstances show the consumer doesnot rely, or that it is unreasonable for him to rely, on the trader’sor such other person’s skill or judgement.

(3) A consumer aggrieved by the breach of an impliedwarranty as provided for in subsection (1) or (2) may make acomplaint to the Authority in writing against such breachwithin one month of the supply of such goods or the provisionof such services as the case may be, or the supply of materialssupplied in connection with the provision of those services.

(4) At any inquiry held into a complaint made undersubsection (3), the Authority shall give the trader or otherperson against whom the complaint is made, an opportunityof being heard either in person or by an agent on his behalf.

(5) Where after the inquiry the Authority is of opinionthat a breach of an implied warranty has taken place, it shallorder the trader or other person to pay compensation to theaggrieved party or refund the amount paid for the supply ofsuch goods or provision of such services as the case may be,and for the supply of any materials in connection with theprovision of those services, within such period as shall bespecified in the order.

(6) An order under subsection (5) shall be made in writingand communicated to such trader or other person by registeredpost.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200319

(7) Where a trader or any other person against whom anorder is made under subsection (5) fails or refuses to pay suchcompensation or to refund the amount required to be paid asthe case may be, within the period specified in the order, suchsum may, on application being made in that behalf by theAuthority to the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction overthe place of business or residence of the trader or such otherperson against whom the order was made, be recovered inlike manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstandingthat such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which thatCourt may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.

33.At the request of the Minister, the Authority shallcarry out a public sector and private sector efficiency studyand submit a report to the Minister. It shall be the duty of theMinister to place such report before Parliament.

PART III

PROMOTION OF COMPETITION AND CONSUMER INTEREST

34. (1) The Authority may either of its own motion oron a complaint or request made to it by any person, anyorganization of consumers or an association of traders, carryout an investigation with respect to the prevalence of any anti-cometitive practice.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Authority to complete aninvestigation under subsection (1), within one hundred daysof its initiation.

35.For the purpose of section 34, an anti-competitivepractice shall be deemed to prevail, where a person in thecourse of business, pursues a course of conduct which of itselfor when taken together with a course of condut pursued bypersons associated with him, has or is intended to have or islikely to have the effect of restricting, distorting or preventingcompetition in connection with the production, supply oracquisition of goods in Sri Lanka or the supply or securing ofservices in Sri Lanka.

Public efficiencyreports.

Anti-competitivepractice.

Authority to carryout investigationsinto anti-competitivepractices.

20Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

36.(1) The Authority may give to all persons includingrepresentatives of associations or organisations of consumersinterested in a matter which forms the subject of aninvestigation under section 34, an opportunity of being heardand of producing such evidence, oral or documentary, as inthe opinion of the Authority is relevant to such matter.

(2)For the purpose of conducting an investigation undersection 33, the Authority shall have all the powers of a DistrictCourt—

(a)to issue notices and require the attendance of anywitness ;

(b)to require the production of documents or records ;and

(c)to administer any oath or affirmation to any witness.

(3)Where any person—

(a)without sufficient reason publishes any statement ordoes anything during the progress or after theconclusion of any investigation, which may bringthe Authority or any member thereof intodisrepute ; or

(b)interferes with the lawful process of the Authority ;or

(c)in the course of an investigation—

(i)fails without cause, to appear before theAuthority at the time and place specified inany notice issued by the Authority to suchperson ; or

(ii)refuses to be sworn or affirmed or having beenduly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails withoutcause, to answer any questions put to himrelating to the matter being investigated by theAuthority ; or

Provisionsrelating to aninvestigationunder section 34.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200321

Authority tomake anapplication to theCouncil.

Council toentertainapplications madeby any person orassociation oftraders.

(iii)refuses or fails without cause, to produce andshow to the Authority any document or recordwhich is in his possession or control, and whichin the opinion of the Authority is relevant to thematter being investigated by the Authority,

such person shall be guilty of an offence of contemptagainst or in disrespect of the Authority and shall be punishablefor such offence by the Court of Appeal.

(4) Where the Authority determines that a person hadcommitted any offence of contempt against or in disrespectof its authority, the Authority may cause the Director-Generalto transmit to the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out itsdetermination and every such certificate shall be signed bythe Chairman of the Authority.

(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offenceof contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to takecognisance of as provided in subsection (3), any documentpurporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to theCourt of Appeal under subsection (4), shall be prima facieevidence of the facts stated in the determination set out therein,and be conclusive evidence that such determination was madeby the Authority.

37.(1) Upon the conclusion of an investigation undersection 34, the Authority may make an application to theCouncil for purpose of determining on such matter.

(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall bemade in writing and shall be in such form as may be prescribedfor that purpose.

38.Where upon conclusion of an investigation by theAuthority under section 34, the Authority decides not to makean application to the Council under section 37 in respect ofsuch investigation, the person, any orgnisation of consumers orassociation of traders, as the case may be, on whose complaintor request such investigation was caried out, may by applicationin writing addressed to the Council, request the Council to—

22Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(a)call upon the Authority to submit to the Council itsreport on the investigation ; and

(b)hear and determine such application, where theCouncil is of opinion that there is sufficient materialin the report to warrant the Council to take up suchapplication for determination.

PART IV

CONSUMER AFFAIRS COUNCIL

39.(1) There shall be established for the purpose of thisAct a Council to be known as the “Consumer Affairs Council”.

(2) The Council shall consist of the following persons whoshall be appointed by the Minister :—

(a)one person who has had wide experience in the fieldof commercial law ;

(b)one person who has had wide experience in themanagement of business enterprises ; and

(c)an economist with wide experience in trade practicesand consumer affairs.

(3) The members of the Council shall hold office for aperiod of three years and the Minister shall nominate one ofthe members to be its Chairman.

(4) The members of the Council shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the Minister, inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

(5) There shall be appointed a Secretary to the Councilwho shall be responsible for maintaining records of allproceedings of the Council, and for sending out any noticesrequired to be sent by the Council under this Act.

Establishment andconstitution of aConsumer AffairsCouncil.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200323

Function of theCouncil.

Order to be madeby the Council.

40. (1) The function of the Council shall be to hear anddetermine all applications and references made to it underthis Act.

(2)Where a decision of the Council is not unanimous,the decision of the majority of the members shall be deemedto be the decision of the Council.

41.(1) Where an application is made to the Council undersection 37 or section 38, as the case may be, the Council shall,on being satisfied that —

(a)an anti-competitive practice exists but such anti-competitive practice does not operate or is not likelyto operate against public interest, by order made inthat behalf, authorise such anti-competitivepractice ; or

(b)an anti-competitive practice exists and that it operatesagainst public interest, by order made in that behalf,provide for —

(i)the termination of such anti-competitivepractice in such manner as may be specifiedin the order ; and

(ii)such other action as the Council may considernecessary for the purpose of remedying orpreventing the adverse effects of any anti-competitive practice.

(2) In determining for the purposes of this section, whetherany anti-competitive practice operates, or is likely to operate,against public interest, the Council shall take into account allmatters which appear to the Council to be relevant to the matterunder investigation and shall have special regard to thedesirability of —

24Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(a)maintaining and promoting effective competitionbetween persons supplying goods and providingservices ;

(b)promoting the interests of consumers, purchasers andother users of goods and services in respect of theprice and quality of such goods and services and thevariety of goods supplied and services provided inSri Lanka ; and

(c)promoting through competition the reduction ofcosts, the development and use of new techniquesand products and facilitating the entry of newcompetitors into existing markets.

(3) Where an application is made to the Council undersection 37 or section 38, as the case may be, it shall be theduty of the Council to make its order on such application,within one month of its receipt.

42.The Authority may cause to be published any ordermade by the Council under section 41, in such manner as itthinks fit.

43.(1) The Council shall have the power to issue noticesand examine witnesses at any inquiry or investigationconducted by the Council. Every notice shall be issued underthe hand of the Secretary to the Council.

(2) A notice may be issued by delivering it to the personnamed therein, or if that is not practicable, by leaving it at thelast known place of abode of that person.

(3) Every person to whom a notice is issued shallattend before the Council at the time and place mentionedtherein, and shall give evidence or produce suchdocuments, records or other things as are required of him andare in his possession or power, according to the tenor of thenotice.

Publication of anorder made undersection 41.

Power to issuenotices towitnesses.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200325

Evidence.

Failure to obey anotice issued or togive evidence &c.

44.(1) The Council shall for the purpose of any inquiryor investigation under this Act have power —

(a)to procure and receive all such evidence written ororal, and to examine all such persons as witnesses,as it may think necessary or desirable to procure,receive or examine ; and

(b)to require the evidence, whether written or oral ofany witness to be given on oath or affirmation andsuch oath or affirmation to be that which would berequired of that witness if he was giving evidence ina court, and to administer an oath or affirmation toevery such witness.

(2) In the conduct of proceedings under this Act, theCouncil shall not be bound by any of the provisions of theEvidence Ordinance.

45.If any person upon whom a notice is issued undersection 43 —

(a)fails without cause which in the opinion of theCouncil is reasonable, to appear before the Councilat the time and place mentioned in the notice ;

(b)refuses to be sworn-in or affirmed, or having beenduly sworn-in or affirmed, refuses or fails withoutcause which in the opinion of the Council isreasonable, to answer any questions put to himrelating to the matters being inquired or investigatedinto by the Council ; or

(c)refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinionof the Council is reasonable, to produce to theCouncil any document or other thing which is in hispossession or power and which is in the opinion ofthe Council necessary for arriving at the truth of thematters to be inquired or investigated into,

such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt againstor in disrespect of, the Council.

26Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

46.(1) Any act or omission in contravention of theprovisions of section 45 shall constitute an offence of contemptagainst, or in disrespect of the Council, if such act or omissionwould if done or omitted to be done in relation to the Courtof Appeal, have constituted an offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of the authority of such Court.

(2) Where the Council determines that a person hascommitted an offence of contempt against or in disrespect ofits authority, the Council may cause its Chairman to transmitto the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out suchdetermination. Every such certificate shall be signed by theChairman of the Council.

(3) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offenceof contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to takecognisance of as provided for in this section, any documentpurporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to suchCourt under subsection (2), shall—

(a)be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such acertificate without further proof unless, the contraryis proved; and

(b)be evidence that the determination set out in thecertificate was made by the Council on the factsstated in the determination.

(4) In any proceeding taken as provided for in this sectionfor the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt againstor in disrespect of the Council, any member of the Councilmay be summoned or examined as a witness and any suchproceeding shall be heard and disposed of within three monthsof the receipt of the certificate referred to in subsection (2).

47.Every person who gives evidence before the Councilshall in respect of such evidence, be entitled to all the privilegesto which a witness giving evidence before a court of law isentitled to in respect of evidence given by him before suchcourt.

Punishment foroffence ofcontempt.

Privileges ofwitnesses.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200327

Procedure to belaid down by theCouncil.

48.The Council may determine the procedure to befollowed in the conduct of any inquiry or investigation beforesuch Council.

PART V

FUND OF THE AUTHORITY

49.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority —

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theAuthority ;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority by way of fees or otherwise in thedischarge of its functions ;

(c)the proceeds from the sale of any goods forfeitedunder this Act ;

(d)one-third of every fine imposed for the commissionof any offence under this Act ;

(e)all such sums of money as may be made available toit by way of grant or donations ; and

(f)all such sums of money as are credited ortransferred to the Fund under section 59 orsection 73.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund —

(a)remuneration payable to the members of theAuthority and of the Council ;

Fund of theAuthority.

28Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(b)such sums as the Authority may consider necessaryfor the promotion, assistance and encouragement ofconsumer organizations and the administration anddevelopment of such organizations ;

(c)such sums as the Authority may consider necessaryfor consumer education and the dissemination ofinformation relating thereto, and for any purposeconnected with or incidental to the furtherance ofsuch education ; and

(d)such sums of money as may be required to defraythe expenses incurred by the Authority and theCouncil in the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act.

50.(1) The Financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Authority.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts ofthe Authority.

51. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial controland accounts of the Authority.

PART VI

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

52.(1) The Authority may with the approval inwriting of the Minister, appoint a Director-General to theAuthority (in this Act referred to as the “Director-General”).

(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority, and shallat all times act under the directions of the Authority.

Financial yearand the audit ofaccounts.

Director-Generalof the Authority.

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200329

(3) Director-General shall be paid such remuneration asmay be determined by the Authority in consultation with theMinister.

(4) Whenever the Director-General is by reason of illnessor absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable toperform the duties of his office, the Authority may, with theapproval in writing to the Minister, appoint some other personto act in his place, during such absence.

53.The Authority may appoint such number of Directors,Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and other officers,servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance ofthe work of the Authority and of the Council, who shall beremunerated at such rates as may be determined by theAuthority in consultation with the Minister.

54.(1) At the request of the Authority, any officer inthe public service may, with the consent of that officer andthe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Authority, with like consent, or with likeconsent be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to him.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, serviceto the Authority by that person shall be regarded as service tothe Government for the purpose of discharging the obligationsunder such agreement.

Appointment ofofficers, servantsand advisers to theAuthority.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theAuthority.

30Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

PART VII

GENERAL

55.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyprovisions of this Act, the Authority may, if it is satisfied aftersuch inquiry as it may deem necessary that any person hascontravened any of the provisions of this Act or any directiongiven thereunder, in the case of the first contravention, sendto such person a warning in writing.

(2) A warning under subsection (1) shall be sent by theAuthority by registered post.

56.(1) The Authority may, for the proper discharge ofits functions under this Act, require the manufacturers,importers, distributors and exporters of any goods orservices—

(a) to maintain records in respect of suchmatters as the Authority may considernecessary for the proper discharge of its functionsunder this Act and in such form as may be determinedby the Authority; and

(b) to furnish to the authority returns in respect ofsuch matters as the Authority may considernecessary for the proper discharge of its functionsunder this Act, at such intervals and in such form asmay be determined by the Authority.

(2) It shall be the duty of all manufacturers, importers,distributors and exporters who are required under paragraph(a) of subsection (1) to maintain records, to preserve therecords being so maintained, for a period not exceeding sixyears.

Power ofAuthority to sendwarning.

Power to requiremaintenance ofrecords and thefurnishing ofreturns.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200331

Power ofAuthority to callfor information.

Power of entry,inspection andsearch.

57.(1) The Authority or any person authorised in that behalfby the Authority may, by notice in writing require any personwithin such period as shall be specified in the notice, to furnishany information or to produce any document as shall be specifiedin such notice, which the Authority may consider necessary forthe proper discharge of its functions under this Act, and it shallbe the duty of any person who receives such notice to complywith such requirement within the time specified in such notice,notwithstanding the provisions of any written law which mayprohibit such person from disclosing such information or fromproducing such document :

Provided however, that nothing in this subsection shall beread and construed as enabling the Authority or any personauthorised in that behalf by the Authority, by notice to requireany person to furnish any information or to produce anydocument, if the disclosure of such information or the productionof such document is prohibited by any provision of any lawproviding for the imposition and recovery of any tax.

(2) No information contained in a return furnished undersection 56 and no information furnished or the contents of adocument produced in compliance with the terms of a noticeissued under this section, shall be published or communicatedby the Authority to any other person except with the consentof the person furnishing such return or information, orproducing such document, as the case may be, or in the courseof the discharge of its functions by the Authority.

58.(1) The Authority or any other officer authorised inwriting in that behalf by the Authority may, for the purpose ofascertaining whether the provisions of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder are being complied with, have the power onreasonable grounds and on production, if so required, hiscredentials —

(a) to enter, inspect and search at all reasonable hours ofthe day the premises in which any manufacturer ortrader is carrying on his business or any other premiseswhere any goods are being stored or exposed for sale ;

32Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(b) to seize and detain any goods found in such premises incontravention of the provisions of section 16 or 17 ; and

(c) to inspect, take copies of or seize and detain anyrecords or documents required to be kept by or underthis Act or any other law in respect of such business.

(2) Any goods seized and detained under paragraph (b)of subsection (1), shall be produced in court, and on convictionof such manufacturer or trader, be forfeited and disposed ofin such manner as may be determined by court, and any moneyrealised shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

59. (1) Where any goods seized and detained underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 58, is of suchperishable nature, as in the opinion of the Authority render theirimmediate sale necessary or advisable, the Authority shall givenot less than three days notice of the sale of such goods by anadvertisement published in one Sinhala, Tamil and Englishnewspaper each circulating in Sri Lanka and thereafter causesuch goods to be sold.

(2) The proceeds of a sale under subsection (1) of anygoods, shall be credited to a special account to be maintainedfor that purpose by the Authority, and where the person fromwhom the goods were seized is acquitted or dischargedsubsequently by the court, the amount realised from the saleof such goods shall be given to such person.

(3) Where the court convicts the person from whom thegoods were seized, the money realised from the sale of suchgoods and lying to the credit of the special account referredto in subsection (2), shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

60.(1) Any person who. —

(a) fails or refuses to furnish .—

(i) a return when required by the Authority to do sounder section 56 ; or

Sale of perishablegoods.

offences andPenalties.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200333

(ii) any information or to produce any documentwhen required to do so by a notice sent undersection 57;

(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any returnfurnished by him under this Act, or knowinglyfurnishes any false information when required by theAuthority to furnish any information ; or

(c) obstructs any officer acting in the exercise of hispowers under section 58,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall onconviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —

(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than rupees one thousand and not exceedingrupees five thousand or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding three months orto both such fine and imprisonment in the case of afirst offence, and to a fine not less than rupees twothousand and not exceeding rupees ten thousand or toan imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or

(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine notless than rupees five thousand and not exceedingrupees ten thousand in the case of a first offence, andto a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and notexceeding rupees twenty thousand in the case of asubsequent offence.

(2) (a) Any person who fails or refuses to comply withan order made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section41 or acts in contravention of such order, shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and shall on conviction after trial beforea Magistrate be liable —

34Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(i)where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than rupees five thousand and not exceedingrupees fifty thousand or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment in the case of afirst offence, and to a fine not less than rupees tenthousand and not exceeding rupees one hundredthousand or to an imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding two years or to both suchfine and imprisonment in the case of a subsequentoffence ; or

(ii)where such person is a body corporate, to a fine notless than rupees fifty thousand and not exceedingrupees one million in the case of a first offence, andto a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousandand not exceeding rupees two million in the case ofsubsequent offence.

(b) The court may in addition, order such persons to refrainfrom carrying on the activities in respect of which an orderhas been made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section41 for such period as may be determined by such court oruntil such person complies with the order made under thatparagraph.

(3) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act byreason of a contravention of the provisions of section 15 orsection 16 or section 17 shall, on conviction after trial beforea Magistrate, be liable —

(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than rupees one thousand and not exceedingrupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding six months or toboth such fine and imprisonment in the case of a firstoffence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousandand not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to an

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200335

imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding one year or to both such fine andimprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or

(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine notless than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupeesfifty thousand in the case of a first offence, and to afine not less than rupees one hundred thousand andnot exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the caseof a subsequent offence.

(4) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act byreason of a contravention of the provisions of section 18 shall,on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —

(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than rupees five thousand and not exceedingrupees fifty thousand or to an imprisonment of eitherdiscrpition for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment in the case of a firstoffence, and to a fine not less than rupees ten thousandand not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand or toan imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or

(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine notless than rupees fifty thousand and not exceedingrupees one million in the case of a first offence, andto a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousandand not exceeding rupees two million in the case of asubsequent offence.

(5) Every person who acts in contravention of anyprovision of this Act, (other than the provisions referred to insubsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section) or anyrequirements imposed under any such provision, or anyregulations made under section 72, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall, on conviction after trial before aMagistrate, be liable —

36Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than rupees one thousand and not exceedingrupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding six months or toboth such fine and imprisonment in the case of a firstoffence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousandand not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to animprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding one year or to both such fine andimprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or

(b) where such person is a body corporate to a fine notless than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupeesone hundred thousand in the case of a first offence,and to a fine not less than rupees twenty thousand andnot exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the caseof a subsequent offence.

(6) The Authority may publish or cause to be publishedin such manner as it shall deem fit, the names and addressesof all persons convicted under this Act.

(7) Where any offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then —

(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate,every director and officer of such body corporate ;and

(b) if the body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be deemed guilty of that offence :

Provided that no such director, officer or partner shall bedeemed guilty of that offence if he proves that suchoffence was committed without his knowledge or that heexercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of suchoffence.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200337

Obtaining samplesfor purpose ofensuringcompliance withstandards andspecifications.

61.(1) The Authority may where it has reason to believethat any goods that are being sold do not conform to thestandards and specifications laid down under section 12 ofthis Act—

(a) authorize an officer in writing to obtain a sample ofsuch goods —

(i) from any premises in which a manufacturer ortrader of such goods are carrying on his business ;

(ii) from any premises where any such goods arebeing stored or exposed for sale ; or

(iii) from any vehicle in which such goods are beingtransported ; and

(b) issue a directive to the manufacturer or trader fromwhose possession such sample was obtained, to refrainfrom selling or exposing for sale the goods concernedfor a period to be specified in the directive, so howeversuch period shall not exceed a period of six weeksfrom the date of the issue of such directive.

(2) It shall be the duty of the officer who obtained thesample to forthwith submit it to an approved analyst forpurpose of determining whether such goods conforms to thestandards and specifications laid down under section 12, andthe said approved analyst may, except in exceptionalcircumstances, submit his report to the Authority within aperiod not exceeding one month of the receipt of the sample.

(3) On receipt of the report of an approved analyst, theAuthority shall —

(a) where it discloses that the goods concerned conformsto the standards and specifications laid down undersection 12, forthwith remove the restriction imposedby the directive issued under subsection (1) ; or

38Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(b) where it discloses that the goods do not conform tothe standards and specifications laid down undersection 12 of this Act and that such non conformityhas resulted in the goods concerned being renderedunfit for any use or consumption, seize and detain suchgoods or consignment of goods as the case may be.

(4) Where any goods or consignment of goods are seizedand detained under paragraph (b) of subsection (3) from anymanufacturer or trader as the case may be, such manufactureror trader shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(5) In a prosecution for an offence under this section, acertificate issued under the hand of an officer authorised bythe Director-General in writing to analyse any goods for thepurpose of this section, stating the ingredients or thecomposition of the goods in relation to which the offence isalleged to have been committed, shall be admissible inevidence and shall be prima facie proof of the statements madetherein.

(6) A prosecution for an offence under this section shallnot be instituted except by or with the written sanction of theDirector-General.

(7) For the purpose of this section, an “approved analyst”means a person who is qualified to perform such functionand approved by the Director-General.

62.(1) Where in a conviction for an offence undersubsection (4) of section 61 it is proved that the non-conformity with the standards and specifications has renderedthe goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use or forconsumption, then —

(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court ofthe relevant Province established by Article 154P ofthe Constitution, against the relevant conviction withinthe time allowed therefor ; or

General forfeiture.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200339

Priority to begiven for casesunder section 61.

Protection foraction taken underthis Act.

(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Court ofthe relevant Province established by Article 154P ofthe Constitution, against the relevant conviction, andthe conviction is affirmed,

the court shall order that such goods or consignment of goodsbe forfeited to the State to be destroyed in such manner as thecourt may direct.

(2) Where in an action for an offence referred to insubsection (1), the accused is acquitted for the reason that itwas not proved to the satisfaction of the court that the non-conformity with the standards and specifications has renderedthe goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use orconsumption, then —

(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court ofthe relevant Province established by Article 154P ofthe Constitution, against the relevant acquittal withinthe time allowed therefor ; or

(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Courtof the relevant Province established by Article154P of the Constitution, against the relevantacquittal and the acquittal is affirmed by the Court ofAppeal,

the court shall order the release of goods or consignment ofgoods seized.

63.Every court shall give priority to the disposal of anycase filed under section 61 before such court, and to thehearing of any appeal from any conviction against any orderimposed on such conviction.

64.No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted—

(a)against the Authority for any act which in good faithis done or purported to be done by the Authorityunder this Act ; or

40Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(b)against any member, Director-General, Director,Deputy Director, Assistant Director, officer, servantor adviser of the Authority or any member of theCouncil, for any act which in good faith is done orpurported to be done by him under this Act or on thedirections of the Authority or the Council as the casemay be.

65.(1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority beforeany court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, andany costs paid to or recovered by the Authority in any suchsuit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any member,Director-General, Director, Deputy Director, AssistantDirector, officer, servant or adviser of the Authority or anymember of the Council in any suit or prosecution brought byor against such person before any court, in respect of any actwhich is done or purported to be done by such person underthis Act or on the directions of the Authority or Council shall,if the court holds that such act was done in good faith, be paidout of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses arerecovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

66.All members of the Authority and the Council,Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors, AssistantDirectors, officers, servants and advisers of the Authority shallbe deemed to be —

(a) public servants within the meaning of, and for thepurposes of the Penal Code ; and

(b) public servant within the meaning of section 136 ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979for the purpose of instituting proceedings in respectof offences under this Act.

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund.

Members of theAuthority and theCouncil andofficers andservants of theAuthority deemedto be publicservants.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200341

The Authority andthe council deemedto be ScheduledInstitutions withinthe meaning of theBribery Act.

Rewards to certainpersons.

Offences to becognizableoffences.

Certain officers tobe peace officers.

Regulations.

67.The Authority and the Council shall be deemed tobe Scheduled Institutions within the meaning of the BriberyAct and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

68.Where any offence under this Act is committed byan agent or servant of any manufacturer or trader, such offenceshall be deemed to have been committed by such manufactureror trader, unless he proves that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge.

69.Where any person is convicted of any offence underthis Act or where any goods are seized and ordered to beforfeited under this Act, the Authority may pay —

(a) to the person who provided the information leadingto such conviction or the seizure and forfeiture of suchgoods ; and

(b) to any person who was concerned in the detection ofsuch offence or effecting the seizure and forfeiture ofsuch goods,

such amount as it may deem reasonable, as a reward.

70.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every offenceunder this Act, shall be deemed to be a cognizable offencewithin the meaning and for the purposes of that Code.

71.The Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directorsand Assistant Directors of the Authority shall be deemed tobe peace officers within the meaning of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 for the purpose of exercisingany of the powers conferred upon peace officers by that Code.

72.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofany matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorised by this Act to be made.

Principal liable foroffences of agentsand servants.

42Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a) prescribing the manner in which meetings of theAuthority shall be convened ;

(b) prescribing the manner of conduct of meetings of theAuthority ;

(c) prescribing the persons by whom, and the manner inwhich, the expenses of witnesses notified to attendinquiries and investigations held by the Authority andthe Council are to be paid.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is deemed to be rescinded, shall be publishedin the Gazette.

73.(1) (a) The Consumer Protection Act, No. 1 of 1979is hereby repealed.

(b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act—

(i)(aa)every scheme of distribution publishedunder section 3 of the repealed Act ;

(bb)every general direction issued by theCommissioner of Internal Trade undersection 6 of the repealed Act ;

Repeal ofConsumerProtection Act,No. 1 of 1979,Fair TradingCommission Act,No. 1 of 1987,Control of PricesAct, (Chapter173) and savings.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200343

(cc)every standard and specificationdetermined by the Commissioner ofInternal Trade under section 8 of therepealed Act ; and

(dd)every written agreement entered into by theCommissioner of Internal Trade with anymanufacturer, trader or any association ofmanufacturers or traders under section 10of the repealed Act,

and in force on the day prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to bea scheme published, direction issued, standard andspecification determined and written agreemententered into by the Authority ;

(ii)all moneys lying to the credit of the ConsumerProtection Fund established under section 33A ofthe repealed Act on the day immediately prior to thedate of commencement of this Act, shall standtransferred with effect from that date, to the Fundestablished under this Act ;

(iii)every regulations made by the Minister under section34 of the repealed Act and in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act and which is notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall bedeemed to be regulations made under this Act, andmay accordingly be amended, added to or rescinded,by regulations made under this Act ;

(iv)all suits and prosecutions instituted under therepealed Act by or against the Attorney-General asrepresenting the Department of Internal Trade in hisofficial capacity, in any court or tribunal and pendingon the day prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be deemed to be suits and prosecutionsinstituted by or against the Authority and may becontinued accordingly ;

44Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(v)all decrees and orders entered or made by anycompetent court in favour of or against the Attorney-General as representing the Department of InternalTrade in his official capacity and remainingunsatisfied on the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed to have been entered or made infavour of or against the Authority and may beenforced accordingly ; and

(vi)all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurredand all matters and things engaged to be done bywith or on behalf of the Department of Internal Tradeshall be deemed to have been incurred, and engagedto be done by, with or on behalf of the Authority.

(2) (a) The Fair Trading Commission Act, No. 1 of 1987is hereby repealed.

(b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act—

(i)all moneys lying to the credit of the Fund establishedunder section 30 of the repealed Act, on the dayimmediately prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be transferred to the Fund of theAuthority established under this Act ;

(ii)all inquiries and investigations pending before theFair Trading Commission on the day prior to the dateof commencement of this Act, shall be deemed tobe inquiries and investigations pending before theAuthority under the provisions of this Act, and mayaccordingly be continued and concluded before suchAuthority under the provisions of this Act ;

(iii)all requests made under section 18 of the repealedAct and all questions referred to the Fair TradingCommission under the repealed Act and pendingbefore such Commission, on the day prior to the dateof commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200345

be requests made and questions referred to theAuthority under this Act, and may accordingly beinquired into and examined by the Authority underthe provisions of this Act ;

(iv)all orders made and reports submitted by the FairTrading Commission under the provisions of therepealed Act, shall be deemed to be orders made,and reports submitted by the Authority under theprovisions of this Act ;

(v)all suits and prosecutions instituted by or againstthe Fair Trading Commission in any court ortribunal and pending on the day prior to thedate of commencement of this Act shall bedeemed to be suits and prosecutions instituted by oragainst the Authority and may be continuedaccordingly ;

(vi)all decrees and orders entered or made by anycompetent court in favour of or against the FairTrading Commission and remaining unsatisfied onthe date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed to have been entered or made in favour ofor against the Authority as the case may be, and maybe enforced accordingly ;

(vii)every regulation made by the Minister under therepealed Act and in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act and which is notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall bedeemed to be a regulation made under this Act andmay accordingly be amended, added to, or rescindedby regulations made under this Act ;

(viii)all officers and servants of the Commission on theday immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act—

46Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(a)who are offered employment with theAuthority and accepts such offer, shall beemployed therein on such terms and conditionsas are not less favourable than the terms andconditions of employment that were applicableto them on the day immediately preceding thedate of commencement of this Act ; or

(b)who are not offered employment with theAuthority or who are offered such employmentand who do not accept such offer, shall beentitled to the payment of such compensationas may be determined by the Minister ; and

(ix)all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurredand all contracts and agreements executed or enteredinto and all matters and things engaged to be doneby, with or for the Fair Trading Commission shallbe deemed to have been incurred, executed, enteredinto and engaged to be done by, with or for theAuthority.

(3) The Control of Prices Act, (Chapter 173) is herebyrepealed.

74.From and after the commencement of this Act,every reference to “Price Control Inspector” in any writtenlaw, shall be read and construed as a reference to the relevantofficer of the Authority, assigned by the Authority toperform the functions relating to the regulation of the pricingof goods.

75.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“consumer” means any actual or potential user of any goodsor services made available for a consideration byany trader or manufacturer ;

“Council” means the Consumer Affairs Council establishedby section 39 of this Act ;

Interpretaion.

Reference to“Price ControlInspector” to be areference torelevant officer inthe Authority.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200347

“fuel” includes all petroleum products in liquid or gaseousform, oil, other gases, coal or lubricants ;

“goods” means any food, drink, pharmaceutical, fuel andall other merchandise ;

“local authority” means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under any lawto exercise, perform and discharge, powers, dutiesand functions corresponding to or similar to thepowers, duties and functions exercised, performedand discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;

“price” means a charge of any description ;

“Provincial Council” means a ProvincialCouncil established under Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution ;

“manufacturer” means any person who—

(a) makes any article or any goods ;

(b) assembles or joins any article or any goodswhether by chemical process or otherwise ; or

(c) adapts for sale any article or any goods ;

“service” means service of any description which is madeavailable to actual or potential users, and includes—

(a) banking, financing, insurance, shipping andentertainment ;

(b) the construction, production, manufacture,supply, storage, maintenance, repair, treatment,cleaning, processing or alteration of goods ;

48Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

(c) services in connection with the import, exportor distribution of goods ;

(d) the transportation of goods and passengers ;

(e) the cleaning of buildings and building premises ;

(f) the sale and supply of any utility services includingelectricity, water, gas and telecommunication ;

(g) the provision of information technology andcommunications ;

(h) professional services such as accounting,auditing, legal, medical and health, surveying,architecture and engineering.

“trader” means any person who—

(a) sells or supplies goods wholesale to otherpersons ;

(b) sells or supplies goods at retail rates toconsumers ;

(c) imports goods for the purpose of sale or supply ;

(d) provides services for a consideration.

76.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

77.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin the preceding provisions of this Act, the provisions of thisAct relating to anti-competitive practices, shall not apply tothe supply of goods or services by any person who is supplyingsuch goods or services under an agreement entered into withthe government and which is in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act, during the period of its validity asspecified in that agreement as on such date of commencement.

Sinhala text toprevail in theevent of anyinconsistency.

Exemption ofexistingagreements.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200349

Leave or absenceof members.

Term of office ofmembers.

Vacation of officeby deathresignation orremoval.

SCHEDULESection 3(4)

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing asa member of the Authority—

(a) if he is, or becomes a Member of Parliament, any provincial councilor any local authority ;

(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country,found or declared to be of unsound mind ;

(d) if he is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment imposedby any court in Sri Lanka or any other country ; or

(e) if he had been removed from membership of the Authority formisconduct.

2. Every member of the Authority other than the chairman and the full-time members shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a term of three years from the date of his appointmentand unless he has been removed from office, be eligible for reappointment :

Provided that a member appointed in place of a member who had vacatedoffice, by death, resignation or removal, shall hold office for the unexpiredterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

3. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, removefrom office any member of the Authority, other than the chairman or a full-time member for misconduct or for physical or mental incapacity. A memberin respect of whom an Order is made under this paragraph shall be deemedto have vacated office on the date of publication of the Order in the Gazette.

(2) The removal of any member under sub-paragraph (1) shall not becalled in question in any court.

4. A member of the Authority other than the chairman or a full-timemember may at any time resign from his office by letter to that effect addressedto the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being acceptedby the Minister in writing.

5. In the event of the vacation of office, by death, resignation or removal,by any member of the Authority, the Minister may, having regard to theprovisions of section 3 appoint another person to succeed such member.

6. Where a member of the Authority, other than the chairman or a full-time member is by reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka fora period not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform hisduties, it shall be the duty of such member to inform the Minister in writingof such inability. Thereupon, the Minister may having regard to the provisionsof section 3, appoint some other person to act in his place during such period.

Disqualificationfrom appointment.

Termination ofappointment ofmembers.

Resignation ofmembers.

50Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

7. (1) If the Chairman or any one of the full-time members are by reasonof illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office, the Minister may appoint another member of theAuthority to act in his place.

(2) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette remove theChairman or any one of the full-time members of the Authority from officefor misconduct or for physical or mental incapacity. Such person in respectof whom an Order is made under this paragraph shall be deemed to havevacated office on the date of publication of the Order in the Gazette.

(3) The Chairman or any one of the full-time members may at any timeresign from the office of Chairman or full-time members as the case may beby letter addressed to the Minister. Such resignation shall take effect upon itbeing accepted by the Minister in writing.

8. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall, if present preside at everymeeting of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairman from any suchmeeting, one of the full-time members present shall preside, and in the absenceof, the Chairman and all the full-time members from any meeting of theAuthority, the members present at such meeting shall elect one of the memberspresent, to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be fourmembers.

(3) The Chairman, or in his absence the member presiding at anymeeting of the Authority shall have, in addition to his own vote, a castingvote.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph and any regulation madeunder section 71 the Authority may regulate the procedure in regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

9. No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority shall be deemed invalidby reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members or anydefect in the appointment of any member thereof.

10. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of theChairman.

(2) The application of the seal of the Authority shall be authenticated bythe signature of the Chairman or some other member of the Authorityauthorised to authenticate the application of such seal.

Termination ofappointment ofChairman.

Meetings of theAuthority.

Seal of theAuthority.

Proceedings act ordecision not todeemed invalid byreason of anydefect in theappointment.

Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 200351

Disclosure ofinterest bymembers.

11. A member of the Authority who is directly or indirectly interestedin any matter which forms the subject matter of any proceeding of theAuthority or of any decision proposed to be made by the Authority, shalldisclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority and suchmember shall not take part in any proceeding or decision in respect of suchmatter.

52Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.