PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ROHITHA ABEYGUNAWARDANAFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 6 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 25, 2011

1Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2011

Short title.

[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]

L.D—O. (Inc.) 15/2009.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ROHITHA ABEYGUNAWARDANAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “RohithaAbeygunawardana Foundation” has heretofore been formedfor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transactingthe objects and matters connected with the said Associationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Rohitha AbeygunawardanaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation” or shall hereafterbe admitted, as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referredto as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession, underthe name and style of “Rohitha AbeygunawardanaFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote activities relating to social developmentthrough the partcipation of the general public andparticularly the people of Kalutara District;

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe RohithaAbeyguna-wardhanaFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20112

(b)to participate in activities relating to the social,cultural and economic development of the country;

(c)to train children to be aware of religious and othervalues and to promote in them an interest in sportsactivities with a view to enhancing their potentialin order that they may be equipped to grow up andparticipate in the development of the country;

(d)to provide assistance in establishing and developingreligious centres;

(e)to take measures to protect and preserve the moraland cultural values of people;

(f)to work towards bridging the gap between thegeneral public and the public service;

(g)to provide assistance in obtaining legal aid andlegal advice to the needy;

(h)to assist victims of sudden disasters and provideassistance in improving their living standards;

(i)to provide assistance to persons who are mentallyand physically handicapped; and

(j)to work towards the promotion and furtherance ofthe rights of women and children.

(2) In the implementation of the objects of this Act as arespecified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure thatsuch implementation is carried out without any distinctionbased on race, cast, religion, language, sex or politicalopinion.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and things

General powersof theCorporation.

3Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2011

whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of its objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to:—

(a)purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwiseobtain, lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation;

(b)solicit, receive and collect grants, gifts ordonations, in cash or kind;

(c)open, operate and close bank accounts;

(d)borrow and raise money with or without security;

(e)invest any funds not immediately required for thepurpose of the Corporation in such manner as theCorporation may think fit.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and any rules made by thecorporation under section 6, be administered by an Executivecouncil (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) consistingof a President, two Vice Presidents, a Secretary, Treasurerand ten other members elected in accordance with the rulesof the Corporation.

(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall, consist ofthe members of the Council of the Foundation holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act. Such Council shall hold office until an executiveCouncil is elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any General Meeting of the members and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20114

provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership, membership feespayable, the admission, withdrawal, expulsion orresignation of members ;

(b)the election of the members to the Council and thepowers and duties;

(c)the election of the office bearers, their term of office,the resignation from, or vacation or, removal fromoffice of office bearers and their powers, conductand duties;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions ofofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed in the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council, the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefore and the conduct of businessthereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyincluding its funds; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and itshall consist of all moneys received by way of gift, bequests,

Fund of theCorporation.

5Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2011

testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, fees orcontributions from local or foreign institutions andindividuals, members and non-members.

(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the nameof the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested inany suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporationas may be decided by the Executive Council.

(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of thefunds of the Corporation.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Foundation on that dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property both movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act, and be subject to the rules of the Corporation,made under section 6 the Corporation shall have full powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same.

10.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amounts of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of its debts and liabilities anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20116

among the members of the Corporation, but shall be givenor transferred to some other institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is, orare by its or their rules prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its members.

12.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by a qualified auditoror auditors appointed by the Council.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such Institute.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident or one of the Vice President and the Secretary ofthe Corporation, who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Audit andaccounts of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

7Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2011

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Rohitha Abeygunawardana Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20118

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.