PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 08th March, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SRI SARANANDA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 06 OF 2007

1Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

Short title.

Preamble.

2—P L –001518-5,400 (2006/10)

Incorporation ofthe SriSaranandaDevelopmentFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

[Certified on 08th March, 2007]

L. D.—O. INC 01/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI SARANANDADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS A Foundation called and known as the “SriSarananda Development Foundation” has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of effectually fulfilling andcarrying out the objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri SaranandaDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theSarananda Development Foundation (hereinafter referred toas the “Foundation”), and such other persons as shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herby constituted,shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession, underthe name and style of the Sarananda Development Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that namemay sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authorityto have, and to use, a common Seal and to alter the same at itswill and pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

2Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

(a) to fulfil the economic, social and cultural needs ofthe members of the Foundation and to provide forwelfare facilities ;

(b) to preserve and reconstruct the Gangarama MahaViharaya and maintain and develop the Sri SaranandaPirivena, Religious School, Nursery and VocationalTraining Section ; and

(c) to effect repairs to the old structures of the GangaramaMaha Vihara, specifically the shrine room, the threestoried sermon hall, the Seema Mandira and Hall ofResidence, to construct buildings to suit newrequirements within the premises to improve theplaces of worship, and to make neccessaryarrangements for the preservation and beautificationof the land.

4.(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall, subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rulesof the Corporation made under section 7, be administered byan Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman, ViceChairman, the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, the Treasurerand not less than five other members elected in accordancewith such rules.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Executive Committee ofthe Foundation, holding office on the day preceeding thedate of commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a) to acquire and hold any property movable orimmovable which may become vested in it by virtueof any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise ;

(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof any such property ;

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

(c) to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss, such officers and servantsas may be neccessary for the purpose of carrying outthe objects of the Corporation ;

(d) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kindwhether from local or foreign sources ;

(e) to open, maintain, operate and close bank accountsand to borrow or raise money with or withoutsecurity ;

(f) to invest moneys belonging to the Corporation insuch securities as may be determined by the ExecutiveCommittee ; and

(g) to do all such other acts and things as are incidentalor conducive to the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of—

(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Foundation onthe day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act which shall standtransferred to the Corporation with effect from thatdate ; and

(b) all moneys that may accrue to the Corporation afterthe date of commencement of this Act.

(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Fund of theCorporation shall be utilized to defray the expenses incurredin the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act and any other written law, in respect of thefollowing matters :—

Fund of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

(a) the election, appointment or nomination of themembers of the Executive Committee and their powersand duties and terms of office ;

(b) the powers, duties and functions of the officers,agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(c) the procedure to be observed in the summoning andholding of meetings of the Executive Committee,the fixing of the time and place and finalising thenotice and agenda of such meetings, specifying thequorum therefor and the conduct of business thereat ;

(d) the qualifications and disqualifications formembership of the Executive Committee and of theCorporation ;

(e) the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds andmaintenance and audit of its account ; and

(f) generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made under subsection (1) may at a likemeeting and in like manner be amended, altered, added to orrescinded.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules for the time being of the Corporation.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Executive Committee of the Corporation shallcause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income andexpenditure of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Executive Committeeof the Corporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

5Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

9.The income and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of theCorporation.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to, and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Foundation on such dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

11.The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary and it shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever, except in the presence of the Secretary and theChairman who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or anyother persons except such as are mentioned in this Act andthose claiming by, from, or under them.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Application ofincome andproperty of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

6Sri Sarananda Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 06 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before15th December each year in respect of the year following.