PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KARUNA SAMADHI ORGANIZATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 61 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 26th October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 30, 2009

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20091

[CERTIFIED ON 26TH OCTOBER 2009]

L. D. — O. (INC.) 5/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KARUNA SAMADHI ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “KarunaSamadhi Organization” has heretofore been formed inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidAssociation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Karuna SamadhiOrganization (Incorporation) Act, No.61 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “KarunaSamadhi Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the“Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Karuna SamadhiOrganization” and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its discretion.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to assist in the promotion of spiritual and economicdevelopment of the families of Sri Lankan citizenswho are facing economic difficulties ;

2—PL 004203—3,090 (2009/07)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe KarunaSamadhiOrganization.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20092

(b)to offer scholarships with monthly financialassistance for the education of deserving studentswho are facing economic difficulties ;

(c)to provide medicine, foods and other necessities tohospitalized patients who are facing economicdifficulties, to provide nutritious food and clothingto pregnant mothers and children, and to providemedical equipments and other instruments tohospitals ;

(d)to assist disabled persons and their families ;

(e)to conduct educational courses, vocational trainingsand workshops for youths and provide counselingservices to assist them to achieve personal andfinancial security ;

(f)to organize Shramadana activities in order toencourage the spirit of working together ;

(g)to establish and maintain international branches ofthe Organization ; and

(h)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,periodicals and magazines and to organize seminarsand workshops on matters of common interest.

(2) The Corporation shall ensure that the implementationof the objects of the Corporation shall be carried out to thegreatest extent possible without any distinction based onrace, religion, language, caste, sex or political opinion.

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of aDirector-General, Chairman and Finance Administrator, aSecretary, an Assistant Secretary, a Treasurer, an AssistantTreasurer and a Project Director and other members as may

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20093

be elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation fora term of five years.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Organizationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act who shall hold the office until anew Board of Management is appointed under the rules ofthis Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, rent, construct and acquire lands orbuildings which may be required for the purpose ofthe Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise money for the purpose of theCorporation ;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts ;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurpose of the Corporation, in such a manner as theBoard of Management may deem fit ;

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation ;

Powers of theCorporation toacquire property,invest funds, andraise loans & etc.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20094

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(i)to do all such other acts and things as are necessaryor incidental or conducive to proper and effectivecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, in respect of the followingmatters :—

(a)the classification of membership, fees payable byeach class of member, their admission, expulsion orresignation ;

(b)the election of the office bearers or vacation of, orremoval from office of office bearers and powers,duties and conduct of the Board of Management ;

(c)the powers, conduct and duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Management, the time, place, notice andagenda of such meetings, the quorum and theconduct of business thereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership of the Board of Management and ofthe Corporation; and

(f)generally for the administration and managementof the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20095

(2) Any rule of the Corporation made under subsection(1) may be amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner, as a rule made undersubsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of—

(a)all moneys lying to the credit of the Organizationon the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act ; and

(b)all moneys received by way of gift, bequest,donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation after the dateof commencement of this Act.

(3) All moneys lying to the credit of the Fund of theCorporation shall be utilized to defray the expenses incurredin the management of the affairs of the Corporation andattainment of its objects.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedonce in every year by a qualified auditor appointed bythe Corporation and his reports shall be submitted at theGeneral Meeting.

Accounts andaudits.

Fund of theCorporation.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20096

(4) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor ”means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.The Annual General Meeting of the Corporation forany financial year shall be held in the month of June in thesucceeding year. A special General Meeting may be called ifmore than one fourth of the members have in writingrequested a Special General Meeting. Notice of intention tohold such Special General Meeting shall be given to themembers fourteen days before the day on which the meetingis to be held.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among members of the Corporation, but shall begiven or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to that of the Corporation and whichis or are by its rules prohibited from the distribution of anyincome or property among its members. Such institution orinstitutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before, the time of suchdissolution.

11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman and the Secretary of the Corporation who shall

Meetings of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20097

sign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Karuna Samadhi Organization (Incorporation)Act, No. 61 of 20098

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.