PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KAPRUKA FUND ACT, No. 31 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd September, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 13.50Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005

1Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

Short title.

2—PL 000492—5,650 (07/2005)

[Certified on 22nd September, 2005]

L.D.—O. 60/2004.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND CALLED THEKAPRUKA FUND, TO SPECIFY ITS OBJECTIVES AND POWERS ; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE REGISTRATION OF KAPRUKA SOCIETIES AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Kapruka Fund Act,No. 31 of 2005.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KAPRUKA FUND

2.(1) There shall be established a Fund which shall becalled the Kapruka Fund (hereinafter referred to as “theFund”)

(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) of this section, be a body corporate and shallhave perpetual succession and a common seal and may sueand be sued in such name.

3.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe Fund shall be vested in a Board of Managementconstituted as hereinafter provided.

(2) The Board of Management of the Fund (hereinafterreferred to as “the Board”) shall consist of the followingmembers :—

(a)the Chairman of the Coconut Cultivation Board ;

(b)the Chairman of the Coconut DevelopmentAuthority ;

(c)the Chairman of the Coconut Research Board ;

Establishment ofthe KaprukaFund.

Constitution ofthe Board ofManagement ofthe Fund.

2Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(d)the General Manager of the Coconut CultivationBoard, Director-General of the CoconutDevelopment Authority and the Director of theCoconut Research Institute ;

(e)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Plantation Industry, not below therank of an Additional Secretary appointed by theMinister ;

(f)two members appointed by the Minister, from amongpersons who have gained distinction in the coconutindustry ; and

(g)the President of the Sri Lanka Federation of KaprukaSocieties and four representatives nominated by theFederation.

4.(1) The Chairman of the Coconut Cultivation Boardshall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Board of Management.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 5the term of office of the Chairman of the Board shall be hisperiod of membership of the Board.

(3) The total membership of the Board shall be fourteen.

5.(a) The Chairman or a member of the Board appointedunder paragraphs (e) and (g) of subsection (2) of section 3may resign from the office of Chairman or member by letterin that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(b) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove theChairman or any member of the Board from the office ofChairman or member.

6.Members and officers of the Kapruka Societiesregistered under this Act, shall be entitled to membership ofthe Fund.

Chairman of theBoard.

Resignation andremoval ofChairman andmembers.

Membership ofthe Fund.

3Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

7.(1) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at everymeeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman fromany meeting of the Board, any member elected from amongthe members present shall preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the board shall beseven members including the members referred to inparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of subsection (2) of section 3.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) ofthis section, the Board may regulate the procedure in regardto the meetings of the Board, and the transaction of businessat such meetings.

8.No act, or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy amongits members or any defect in the appointment of membersthereof.

9.(1) (a) Every member of the Board appointed underparagraph (f) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall hold officefor a period of three years from the date of his appointment,unless he is removed from or otherwise vacates office earlier.

(b) Every member of the Board appointed under paragraph(g) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall hold office for a periodof one year from the date of his appointment or till theappointment of new officers after an election, unless he isremoved from or otherwise vacates office earlier.

(2) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold officeso long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a memberof the Board.

(3) A member of the Board appointed under paragraph (f)or (g) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall vacate office if he isremoved from office by the Minister with reasons assignedtherefor or he resigns his office by letter addressed to theMinister.

Vacancy amongmembers not toinvalidate act orproceeding ofthe Board.

Meetings of theBoard.

Term of office ofmembers.

4Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(4) Where any member of the Board appointed underparagraph (f) or (g) of subsection (2) of section 3 vacatesoffice by death, resignation or removal from office, theMinister shall having regard to the provisions of thatparagraph, appoint another person to act in the place of suchmember. The person so appointed shall hold office for theunexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor inoffice.

(5) Any member of the Board vacating office otherwisethan by removal shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(6) Where a member of the Board is temporarily unable todischarge the functions of his office on account of ill health,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint some other person to act as a member in his place.

10.(1) The Fund shall have a common seal which shallbe in the custody of such person as the Board may decidefrom time to time.

(2) The seal of the Fund may be altered in such manner asmay be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Fund shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the persence of twomembers of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrumentor document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instrumentsand documents to which the seal of the fund is affixed.

11.A member of the Board who is directly or indirectlyinterested in a contract proposed to be made by the Boardshall disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of theBoard. The disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of theBoard, and such member shall not take part in anydeliberations or decisions of the Board with respect to suchcontract.

Seal of the Fund.

Members todisclose interestin contracts.

5Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

12.The members of the Board shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates as the Minister may, with theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,determine.

PART II

OBJECTS OF THE FUND

13.The objects of the Fund shall be—

(a)to inculcate and promote thrift among, and upliftthe economic and social status of coconutsmallholders ;

(b)to assist coconut smallholders to increase coconutproduction and agricultural productivity in theirsmallholdings and to increase the yield from theircoconut smallholdings by the use of relevantscientific technology ;

(c)to promote suitable investments related to theestablishment and development of coconut basedsmall industries ;

(d)to acquire, develop or establish, coconut processingunits, factories and other facilities required for themanufacturing of finished products of coconutsmallholdings ;

(e)to register and regulate coconut smallholdingsdevelopment societies and societies of coconutbased small industries (in this Act referred to as“Kapruka Societies”) and to provide assistance tothe members of such societies registered with theFund ;

(f)to promote and develop the marketing of theproduce of such coconut processing units andfactories ; and

(g)to assist Kapruka Societies for the improvement andwell being of those engaged in the production ofcoconut in smallholdings and small industries.

Objects of theFund.

Remuneration ofthe members.

6Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

14.(1) The Board shall in the name of the Fund, havethe power to take all measures necessary for or conducive orincidental to the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have thefollowing powers :—

(a)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or indirectly, through any officer or agentauthorized in writing in that behalf by the Board,all such contracts or agreements as are necessary forcarrying out the objects of the Fund ;

(b)to purchase, transport, store, supply and maintain,any commodity, equipment or machinery necessaryfor the carrying out of the objectives of the Fund ;

(c)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over such officers and agentsas may be necessary for carrying out the objectivesof the Fund ;

(d)to establish and maintain pension or provident fundschemes for the benefit of coconut smallholders andcoconut based small industries to insure membersof the Fund, against any risks ;

(e)to train members, officers and employees of the Fund;

(f)to open, operate and close bank accounts for carryingout the objects of the Fund ;

(g)to levy fees or other charges for services performedor facilities or equipment provided by the Fund ;

(h)to provide assistance, including financial assistanceby way of loans or grants to any Kapruka Societyregistered under this Act engaged in the processing,or marketing of coconut or coconut products ;

(i)to invest such monies of the Fund which is notimmediately required for its purposes, in suchsecurities as the Board may consider fit ;

Powers of theFund.

7Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(j)(i)to require any person to maintain true and accuraterecords in such form and containing suchparticulars as may be specified by the Board,relating to any matter as may be necessary for thecarrying out of the objects of the Fund or theexercise of the powers of the Board ;

(ii)to require any person to furnish, within aspecified period of time, all such returns,information and explanations as are withinthe knowledge of that person relating to anymatter as may be necessary for the carryingout of the objects of the Fund or the exerciseof the powers of the Board ;

(iii)to require any person to produce, or cause tobe produced, before a specified date suchdocumentary or other evidence as the Boardmay require for the purpose of verifying anyfacts entered in any record maintained undersub-paragraph (i) or stated in any return,information or explanation furnished undersub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph ;

(iv)to enter and inspect, at any reasonable time,any land, building, office, store, factory, shedor premises for the purpose of examining andverifying any records required to bemaintained under sub-paragraph (i) of thisparagraph or for the purpose of verifying anyparticulars contained in any return orinformation or explanation furnished to theBoard under sub-paragraph (ii) or (iii) of thisparagraph or for the purpose of inspecting andchecking stocks.

(3) Any person who fails, without reasonable cause, tocomply with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i), or sub-paragraph (ii), or sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (j) ofsubsection (2) of this section, or who knowingly maintainsany false records or knowingly furnishes any false returns,information, explanations or documentary or other evidence,or who obstructs the Board in the exercise of the powersconferred on it by sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (j) ofsubsection (2), shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

8Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

PART III

KAPRUKA SOCIETIES

15.The following persons shall be eligible to obtainmembership of a Kapruka Society registered under thisAct :—

(a)coconut smallholders who are not less than eighteenyears of age and who own coconut lands within theproposed area of operations of such Society;

(b)coconut smallholders who are issued permits for newplanting within that area ; and

(c)newly established coconut based small industriespresently carrying on business within the area.

16.The objectives of every Kapruka Society registeredunder this Act, shall be :—

(a)to create and foster understanding among itsmembers and to cooperate to obtain maximumbenefits for their produce ;

(b)to inculcate and promote thrift among and upliftthe economic and social status of its members ;

(c)to assist coconut smallholders to increase thecoconut production and agricultural productivityof their small holdings and to increase the profitsfrom their coconut smallholdings by the use ofrelevant scientific technology ;

(d)to promote suitable investments related to thecoconut industry ;

(e)to acquire, develop or establish coconut processingunits, factories and other facilities required for themanufacture of the produce of its members ;

Membership ofKapruka Society.

Objectives of theKapruka Society.

9Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(f)to provide financial and other assistance to itsmembers;

(g)to facilitate the production of value added coconutbased products;

(h)to promote and develop the marketing of produceof such coconut processing units and factories; and

(i)to take such measures as may be necessary for theimprovement and well being of its members.

17.(1) A Kapruka Society may apply to the Board forregistration under this Act, in the manner prescribed byregulations together with the fee prescribed therefor.

(2) A Kapruka Society registered under and in accordancewith regulations made under this Act shall, by the nameunder which it is registered under this Act, be a body corporatewith perpetual succession and may sue and be sued in suchname.

(3) Every Kapruka Society registered under this Act, shallhave a common seal which shall be in the custody of suchperson as such Society may decide.

(4) (a) Upon registration of a Kapruka Society under thisAct, the Board shall cause to be published in the Gazette, aNotification stating that a Kapruka Society has beenregistered in the name assigned to it in the register and thedate with effect from which such Kapruka Society has beenso registered.

(b) Upon the cancellation of the registration of a registeredKapruka Society, the Board shall cause to be published inthe Gazette, a Notification stating that the registration ofsuch Society has been cancelled.

Registration of aKapruka Society.

10Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

PART IV

FINANCE AND STAFF

18.There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by the Parliament for the use of the Fund;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theFund in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions.

19.There shall be paid out of the Fund—

(a)such sums of money as are required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Board in the workingand maintenance of the Fund;

(b)all such sums of money as are required to meet suchpayments as are approved by the Board as beingnecessary for the purpose of carrying out of theobjects of the Fund, and all such sums of money asare required by this Act to be paid out of the Fund;and

(c)all such sums of money as are necessary to meet theliabilities of the Kapruka Societies subsisting onthe date of commencement of this Act.

20.All movable and immovable property of the KaprukaSocieties on the date of commencement of this Act, shall vestin the Fund with effect from such date.

21.(1) The Board shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand other transactions of the Fund.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund.

Payment into theFund.

Payments out ofthe Fund.

Acquisition ofassets.

Accounts andAudit.

11Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(3) The income and expenditure account of the Fund andthe balance sheet shall be signed by two members of theBoard authorized to do so by a resolution passed by theBoard.

22.The Financial year of the Fund shall be the calendaryear.

23.(1) At the request of the Authority, any officer in thepublic service may with the consent of that officer, theSecretary to the Ministry under which that officer is employedand the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Fund for such period as may bedetermined by the Board with like consent, or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to him.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Fund by that person shall be regardedas service to the Government for the purpose of dischargingthe obligations of such contract.

Financial Year.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe Staff of theFund.

12Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

PART V

GENERAL

24.(1) The Board may delegate to any member of theBoard or to any officer or servant of the Fund, any of itspowers.

(2) Every member or officer or servant to whom any poweris delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise such powersubject to the direction and control of the Board.

25.In the exercise and performance of its powers andduties the Board shall be subject to any general or specialdirections given by the Minister.

26.(1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted—

(a)against the Board for any lawful act which in goodfaith is done by the Board;

(b)against any member or agent of the Board or anyofficer or servant of the Fund for any lawful act whichin good faith is done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any action orprosecution brought by or against the Board before any courtshall be paid by the Fund, and any costs paid to, or recoveredby the Board in any such action or prosecution shall becredited to the Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any action orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Board shall, if the court holds that such actwas done by him in good faith, be paid by the Fund, unlesssuch expense has been advanced to such person by the Fundor such expense is recovered by him in such suit orprosecution.

Delegation ofpowers of theBoard.

The Board to besubject to thedirection of theMinister.

Protection foraction takenunder this Act oron the directionof the Board.

13Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

27.No writ against person or property shall be issuedagainst a member of the Board in any action brought againstthe Board.

28.Every person who commits an offence under thisAct shall, on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, beliable to imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

29.All members of the Board and officers and servantsof the Fund shall be deemed to be public servants within themeaning, and for the purposes, of the Penal Code.

30.The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

31.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofany matter in respect of which regulations are authorized bythis Act to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1) the Minster may make regulationsin respect of all or any of the following maters:—

(a)the administration of the affairs of the Fund andfinancial procedures;

(b)the conditions for registration of societies;

(c)the making of by-laws for registered societies andexecutive committee of such societies;

(d)the cancellation of registration of kapruka societies;

No writ to beissue againstperson orproperty of amember of theBoard.

Penalty.

Members of theBoard andofficers andservants of theFund deemed tobe publicservants.

The Fund shallbe deemed to bea scheduledinstitution.

Regulations.

14Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

(e)the conduct of meetings of societies and itscommittees;

(f)the arbitration procedure and appointment ofarbitrators for settlement of disputes;

(g)the liquidation procedure and powers of theliquidator;

(h)all matters which are required by this Act to beprescribed.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

32.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

33.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“coconut and coconut based small industries” means smalland irregular units of production on domestic level ;

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

15Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

“Coconut Cultivation Board” means the CoconutCultivation Board established by Order undersection 2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46of 1971;

“Coconut Development Authority” means the CoconutDevelopment Authority established by section 24of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971;

“Coconut Research Board” means the Coconut ResearchBoard established by the Coconut ResearchOrdinance (Chapter);

“Coconut Research Institute” means the Coconut ResearchInstitute established under section 2 of the CoconutResearch Ordinance ; and

“coconut small holding” means an area of land which isfifty acres or less than fifty acres in extent and theexpression, “coconut smallholder” shall beconstrued accordingly.

16Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.