PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 23, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 21st October, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

JAMA’ATH ANSARIS SUNNATHILMOHAMMADIYYA OF SRI LANKA(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 59 OF 2009

1Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

2 —PL 004200—3,150 (07/2009)

Preamble.

[Certified on 21st October, 2009]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 2/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JAMA’ATH ANSARIS SUNNATHILMOHAMADIYYA OF SRI LANKA.

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the Jama’athAnsaris Sunnathil Mohamadiyya of Sri Lanka has heretoforebeen established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectivelycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Association, according to the rules agreed to byits members:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Jama’ath Ansaris SunnathilMohamadiyya of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Jama’athAnsaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya of Sri Lanka (hereinafterreferred to as the “Association”) or such persons as shallhereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under thename and style of the “Jama’ath Ansaris SunnathilMohammadiyya of Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue andbe sued, with full power and authority to have and to use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

Short title.

Incorporation ofJama’ath AnsarisSunnathilMohamadiyya ofSri Lanka.

2Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to teach the Islamic religion based on the teachingsof Quean and Prophet Mohamed’s (SAW) Sunnah;

(b)to prepare and guide Muslims to lead and conductthemselves according to Islamic percepts;

(c)to equip Muslims with the knowledge and skill tospread the message of Islam and to involve inreligious activities;

(d)to encourage the learning of Arabic Language andto conduct courses of studies and provide allassistance to the students in this regard includingestablishing and maintaining Arabic Colleges andMadurasas in all Districts ;

(e)to establish, maintain, administer and developbranch organizations in all Districts ;

(f)to print, publish and distribute Books, Magazines,Journals, periodicals, Pamphlets, Newspapers andproduce audio, video and compact discs, multi mediadevices in English, Sinhala, Tamil and ArabicLanguages.

(g)to provide assistance to construct, repair, rehabilitate,reconstruct, equip and maintain Mosques, places ofworship and Islamic Libraries for Muslims;

(h)to organize and conduct classes, meetings, seminars,conferences and workshops to promote theknowledge of Islam among Muslims and toencourage the practical observance of the principlesof Islam;

(i)to provide assistance and facilities needed foreducational social and economic welfare of theMuslim community in Sri Lanka;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

(j)to provide assistance and facilities needed forreligious and communal harmony among variousreligious groups and communities in Sri Lanka; and

(k)to establish and maintain friendly relations, withother Islamic Institutions engaged in similar pursuitsin and outside Sri Lanka.

4.The Corporation shall subject to the provisions of theAct and of any other written law, have the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwiseobtain, lands or buildings which may lawfully berequired for the Corporation and to deal with ordispose of, the same, as it may deem expedient, witha view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;

(b)to solicit, raise and receive subscriptions, grants,donations and gifts of all kinds, locally and fromabroad, from any person or body of persons,corporate or otherwise, for the purposes of theCorporation;

(c)to appoint, remunerate and exercise disciplinarycontrol over such officers and servants as may benecessary for the purposes of the Corporation;

(d)to raise or borrow money for any purpose of theCorporation and to secure the discharge of any debt,or obligation of the Corporation in such manner itmay think fit;

(e)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such manner as theBoard of management may think fit and to vary andtransfer such investment from time to time;

(f)to establish, organize and maintain, differentbranches and institutions for the different activities,

Powers of theCorporation.

4Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

programmes and projects, sponsored and conductedby the Corporation, for promoting the objects of theCorporation in Sri Lanka and abroad;

(g)to construct, alter or maintain any buildings requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation;

(h)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditions affectingany real or personal property;

(i)to subscribe or grant money for any charitablepurposes; and

(j)to enter into perform, either directly or through itsofficers or servants or agents authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts andagreements as may be necessary, for the exercise,discharge and performance of the powers, functionsand duties of the Corporation or for carrying on theaffairs or for furthering the objects of the Corporation;

5. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,request, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks, as theBoard of Management shall determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish different types of fundsfor the purpose of attaining all or any of the objects of theCorporation Such as Building Fund, Research Fund,Development Fund, Scholarship Fund, Zakat Fund, Hajj Fund,Widows and Orphans Fund and Natural Disaster Fund.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporationall sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred of theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

Funds of theCorporation.

5Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

6.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and to hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation withfull power to sell, lease, rent, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

7.The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 11, beadministered by a Board of Management. The Board ofManagement is elected in terms of the rules of the Corporation.The first Board of Management of the Corporation shall bethe Board of Management of the Jama’ath Ansaris SunnathilMohammadiyya of Sri Lanka holding office on the daypreceding the date of the commencement of this Act.

8.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowsoever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, byway of dividend, loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, byway of profit, to the members of the Corporation:

Provided, however, that the following may be paid—

(a) the payment, in good faith, of reasonable and properremuneration to any officer or employee of theCorporation or to any member of the Corporation forany service by him to the Corporation;

(b) the payment of reasonable and proper rent forpremises let to the Corporation by any member ofthe Corporation or by any Company of which amember of the Corporation is a shareholder; and

(c) the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable andproper expenses incurred, with the prior approval ofthe Board of Management, by any member, officer or

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Corporationto be a non-profit makingorganization.

6Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

employee of the Corporation, in the discharge orperformance of his functions or duties in promotingthe objects of the Corporation.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable tothe Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purpose of this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept with respect to—

(i)all sums of money received or expended by theCorporation;(ii)the assets and liabilities of the Corporation; and

(iii)All other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The Accounts of the Corporation and the balance sheetshall be audited at least once a year by any qualified auditoror auditors appointed for the purpose by the Corporation.

(4) For the purposes of this seciton, “qualified auditor”means—

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the instiute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute

Debts due to andpayable to theCorporation.

Accounts andaudit of theCorporation.

7Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

established by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the council of suchInstitute.

(5) The accounts of the Corporation and the balance sheetshall be open to the inspection of the members of theCorporation at all reasonsable times.

11.It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any meeting of the Board of Management to makesuch rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, orany other written law, for the admission, withdrawal orexpulsion of members, election of the office bearers and theBoard of Management and otherwise generally, for themanagement affairs of the Corporations and the attainmentof its objects including rules providing for filling of anyvacancy in the office bearers or the Board of Management ofthe Corporation. Such rules when made may, at a like meetingand in like manner be altered, added to, amended orrescinded.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee of Management of the Corporationwho shall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such porperty shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is orare by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Suchinstitution shall be determined by the Board at, or immediatleybefore, the dissolution of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

8Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

9Jama’ath Ansaris Sunnathil Mohammadiyya ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 59 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.