PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PIYASENA GAMAGE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 32 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th September, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2014

1Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

2—PL 005974— 2000 (10/2012)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 07th September, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 36/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PIYASENA GAMAGE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the “PiyasenaGamage Foundation” has heretofore been in Sri Lanka forthe purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant said the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Piyasena GamageFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct such and so many persons as now are members of the“Piyasena Gamage Foundation” (hereinafter referred to asthe "Foundation") and shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession, under the name andstyle of the “Piyasena Gamage Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”), and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have, and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Incorporation ofthe PiyasenaGamageFoundation .

2Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)to sponsor and promote sports activities amongchildren and youth according to their talents andinterests;

(b)to fourmulate and implement appropriateprogrammes to improve the language skills ofstudents;

(c)to fourmulate and implement suitable projects forthe benefit of senior citizens, women and children;

(d)to assist the relevent authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities—

(i)to grant scholarships and bursaries to needyand deserving students in order to encouragethe students to engage in higher educations;

(ii)by providing the necessary education,training and assistance to youth to improvetheir professional and vocational skills witha view to obtaining optimal services of suchyouth for the development of the nation;

(iii)to establish and maintain informationtechnology centers particularly in the ruraland under developed areas with a view toimproving computer literacy of students;

(iv)in the area of agriculture by providingassistance to those engaged in agriculture.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

General objectsof the Corpora-tion.

3Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Minister or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to other provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of the Foundation holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation untilthe first Board is appointed or elected in the manner providedfor by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter the lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)above shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of theterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe CentralGovernment orProvince.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower:—

(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the pruposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedwith the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable insturmentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful turst or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects of theCorproation;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation;

Rules of theCorporation.

6Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorpration and the accomplishment of its’ objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The member of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules under this section shall be published in theGovermment Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

7Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corproation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subjectof social services is assigned and to the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Services Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Services Organization (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

Accounts andauditing.

Annual Report.

8Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testementary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,the same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporaton howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

15.(1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such Board.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not be

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

9Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution ata general meeting by the majority of votes of themembers present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

10Piyasena Gamage Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.