PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KOTTAWA SRI PUNYABIWARDANAARAMAVIHARASTHANA PERFORMANCE SOCIETY(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 60 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 23, 2009

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

1

[Certified on 21st October 2009]

L.D.—O. Inc. 10/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KOTTAWA SRI PUNYABIWARDANAARAMAVIHARASTHANA PERFORMANCE SOCIETY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “Kottawa SriPunyabiwardanaarama Viharasthana Performance Society”has heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out it’s objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Society according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Kottawa SriPunyabiwardanaarama Viharasthana Performance Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 60 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members ofthe “Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society” (hereinafter referred to as the“Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hererby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Kottawa SriPunyabiwardanaarama Viharasthana Performance Society”and by that name may sue, and be sued, with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

2—PL 004152— 3,150 (07/2009)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Kottawa SriPunyabiwardana-aramaViharasthanaPerformanceSociety.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

2

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to ensure the security, maintenance anddevelopment of the Temple ;

(b)to ensure the security of the resident Bhikkhus andto provide their needs;

(c)to render assistance for activities aimed at thepromotion of religious, social and economic aspectsof the Temple;

(d)while taking action for the stability of the BuddhaDhamma, to take action for the establishment of asociety based on the Buddhist moral values andobserving the five precepts;

(e)to make provision for the achievement of allobjectives expected from a Buddhist Temple;

(f)to establish and maintain institutions for the welfaretraining and rehabilitation of the destitute, thedisabled, the aged, the sick and displaced personsamong Buddhists;

(g)publish or cause to be published books, journals,magazines and other literature related to Buddhismand establish and maintain libraries, bookshops andprinting presses.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules made under section 6, be administered by a Board ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)consisting of the President, who shall be Chief Incumbent ofthe Viharaya and Vice President, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,Treasurer and five Committee members elected or appointedin accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

3

(2) The First Board shall consist of the members of theBoard of Management of the Society holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purpose of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the pusposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

4

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the members and by votesof at least two-thirds of the members present and votingto make such rules, not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act, or any other written law, for the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members, election of the officebearers of the Board and otherwise generally, for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation and theattainment of its objects including rules providing for thefilling of any vacancy in the Board.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or morebanks as may be determined by the Board.

(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development and improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging it’s powers and functions shall be paid outof the fund.

8.(1)The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

5

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Board.

(4)In this section“Qualified Auditor” means-

(i)an individual who, being a member ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka, or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of SriLanka or of any other Institute establishedby law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by such Institute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever, except in the presence of the Chairman and theSecretary of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theSociety on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurpose of this Act.

11.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

6

by the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporationand subject to the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchangeor otherwise dispose of, the same.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations havingobjects similar to the objects of Corporation and which is orare by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or profit among its or their members. Suchassociation or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

13Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardanaarama ViharasthanaPerformance Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 60 of 2009

7

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.