PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 22, 2006

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 21st December, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

DHARMAYATHANA CONSERVATIONSOCIETY (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 53 OF 2006

Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20061

Short title.

Incorporationof theDharmayathanaConservationSociety.

[Certified on 21st December, 2006]

L. D. O. (Inc) 13/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DHARMAYATHANACONSERVATION SOCIETY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the“Dharmayathana Conservation Society” has heretofore beenestablished at Colombo in Sri Lanka, for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Society according to the rules agreedto by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporated,and it will be for the public advantage to grant theapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the DharmayathanaConservation Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theDharmayathana Conservation Society (hereinafter referredto as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of the“Dharmayathana Conservation Society”, (hereinafter referredto as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and besued in all Courts with full power and authority to have anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects of the Corporation is constitutedare hereby declared to be,—

(a)to implement projects for the development andpromotion of national, religious and culturalactivities ;

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006

(b)to maintain and develop the Dharmayathana and toprotect and preserve the image of the Aukana BuddhaStatue at Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo ;

(c)to preserve and foster the Buddhist philosophy andthe Buddhist way of life ;

(d)to maintain the “Lakviru Sevana” house situated atNo. 48, Bodhirukkarama Road, Wellawatte ;

(e)to provide assistance to the poor, destitute, disabledand malnourished Buddhist children ;

(f)to construct rests for the Buddhist clergy and laymenin the capital city ;

(g)to establish and maintain book shops and libraryservices ;

(h)to hold dhamma preachings and discussions inSinhala, Tamil and English languages and tobroadcast the same through the electronic media ;

(i)to publish books, magazines and leaflets onBuddhism in Sinhala, Tamil, English and otherlanguages deirable for the national and religiousdevelopment;

(j)to conserve and exhibit the antiquities and themonuments of heroes ;

(k)to establish and maintain social welfare centres forBuddhist who are destitute and old ;

(l)to establish institutions to provide training oncomputer and mass media to the Buddhist Priests,Damma School Teachers’ and students ;

Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20063

(m)to establish a vocational training Centre to providevocational training to the destitute and poorBuddhist youths and to establish a Day Care Centreand a Child Development Centre for BuddhistChildren; and

(n)to establish friendly relations with other Buddhistorganizations and Social Service Organizations bothin Sri Lanka and abroad.

4.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe affairs of Corporation shall, subject to the rules of theCorporation, be vested in an Administrative Council(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers elected from among the members inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation to be made inaccordance with the rules made under section 7 of this Act.

(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall be theAdministrative Council of the Society, holding office on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1) Ven. Elle Gunawansa Thero, the Founder ofthe Dharmayathanya shall be the first Chairman of theCorporation.

5.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich every person who on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act is a member of the Society andevery person duly admitted a member of the Corporationshall have his name inscribed.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to take and held land or buildings by way ofacquisition, purchase, rent, construct and otherwisefor the purposes of the Corporation ;

Managemmentof the affairs ofthe Corporation

Powers of theCorporation.

Register ofMembers.

4Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006

(b)to borrow or raise money for the purposes of theCorporation ;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts for the purposes of the Corporation;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such a manner asthe Council may think fit ;

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons ;

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditions affectingany real or personal property ;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation ;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j)to do all other acts as are conducive or incidental tothe attainment of all or any of the above objects.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any Annual General meeting of the Corporation andby a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members

Rules of theCorporation.

Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20065

present and voting to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for any one ofthe following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, fees payable byeach class of members, their admission, expulsionor resignation ;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation from,or vacation of or removal from office of office-bearersand their powers, conduct and duties and function;

(c)the powers, conduct and duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theCouncil, the time, place, notice and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct ofbusiness thereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership of the Council and of the Corporation ;

(f)the adminstration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2)The rules of the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3)The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

6Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006

8.(1)The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,grants, bequest, testamentary disposition, donations,subscriptions, contribution and fees shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

(3) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvementand development of the property of the Corporation.

(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferreddirectly or indirectly by way of dividends, bones or otherwiseby way of profit to any member of the Corporation.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor of the Corporation.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe council of such Institute; or

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20067

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the councilof such Institute.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Society on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debts dueto, and subscriptions and contributions payable to the Societyon that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, uponor by virtue of any instrument of purchase, grant, gift or leaseor upon or by virtue of any testamentary disposition orotherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to therules of the Corporation, to be made in accordance with section7 of this Act with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange,or otherwise dispose of, encumber or charge the same.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of amember of the Council and the Secretary or such other personduly authorized by the Council who shall sign their namesto the insturment in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

13.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliability ofMembers.

8Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to an institution or institutions havingobjects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which isor are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property, among its or their members. Suchinstitution or institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Corporation at or immediately before the time of thedissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any otherpersons.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution of theCorporation.

Dharmayathana Conservation Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20069

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.