PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE SIHALASARANA PIN KETAYA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 42 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th August, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 07, 2009

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 20091

[Certified on 06th August, 2009]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 24/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THESIHALA SARANA PIN KETAYA.

WHEREAS a Trust called and known as the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya has heretofore been established by the TrustDeed bearing Number 765 dated 8 June, 2004 attested byV. P. Tillakaratna, Notary Public of Colombo for thepurpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all theobjects and matters connected with the said Trust:

AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said Trusthave heretofore been successfully managed and carried outby the said Board of Trustees. And whereas the said Board ofTrustees has applied to be incorporated and it will be for thepublic advantage to grant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be the cited as the Board of Trusteesof the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of theBoard of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya (hereinafterreferred to as the “Trust”) or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be bodycorporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) withperpetual succession, under the name and style of the “Boardof Trustees of the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya” and by thatname may sue and be sued, with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Board ofTrustees of theSihala Sarana PinKetaya.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to provide relief for Buddhist persons who are victimsof terrorism, ethnic violence or any racialdiscrimination or aggression ;

(b)to advance the moral, cultural, economic and socialwelfare of Buddhist persons of Sri Lanka ;

(c)to preserve Buddhist cultural heritage of Sri Lankaand places of archeological importance toBuddhists;

(d)to promote and facilitate research on Sinhalalanguage, culture and history ;

(e)to promote the interests of Buddhism ;

(f)to foster Theravada Buddhist Doctrine and way oflife ;

(g)to provide facilities for the study of Buddhism ;

(h)to encourage practical observance of Buddhism ;

(i)to promote unity and co-operation among Buddhistorganizations and Buddhists both nationally, andinternationally ;

(j)to provide welfare facilities to Buddhist persons ;

(k)to provide educational and vocational trainingfacilities to needy Buddhist persons ;

(l)to aid and assist Buddhist persons to commenceand operate agricultural, industrial or commercialventures;

(m)to co-operate with other Buddhist associations ,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 20093

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts , matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to —

(a)open, operate and close bank accounts ;

(b)borrow or raise moneys with or without security;

(c)receive or collect grants and donations ;

(d)invest funds not immediately required by theCorporation ;

(e)engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 7 be administered by a Board of Trusteesconsisting of not more than seven and not less than five membersto be elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shallconsist of the Board of Trustees of the Trust holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

6.No person shall be qualified to function as a memberof the Board of Trustee if such person—

(a)is not a Buddhist ;

(b)is under the age of thirty years ;

(c)is a person who having been declared a bankrupt orinsolvent by a court ;

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Disqualificationto be a Trustee.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009

(d)is of unsound mind ; or

(e)has been declared by any competent court to havecommitted any offence involving moral turpitude.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any meeting of the Board of Trustees and by themajority of not less than two- thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law for all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)the admission, withdrawal, expulsion and filling upof vacancies of the Board of Trustees ;

(b)the duties of the Board of Trustees and of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(c)the procedure to be observed in the meetings, ofthe Board of Trustees and the quorum for suchmeetings ; and

(d)generally for the management of the affairs of theCOrporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be added toamended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner asa rule made under subsection (1).

(3) All Trustees, officers and servants of the Corporationshall be subject to the rules of the Corporation.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday immediately preceding the date of the Commencementof this Act shall be deemed to be debts and liabilities of theCorporation and shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and contributions payable tothe Trust on that day shall be deemed to be debts due to andcontributions payable to the Corporation and shall be paidto the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 20095

9.(1) There shall be a Fund of the Corporation whichshall consist of —

(a)all moneys lying to the credit of the Trust on theday immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act ; and

(b)all moneys received by the Corporation by way ofgift, bequest, donation, contributions or grants.

(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Fund shall beutilized to defray the expenses incurred by the Board ofTrustees, in the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the furtherance of its objects.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchinstitute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009

11.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 7 to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of twomembers of the Board of Trustees, who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as awitness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporationthere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, any property whatsoever, such property,shall not be distributed among the members of theCorporation but shall be given or transferred to some otherinstitution or institutions having objects similar to the objectsof the Corporation and which is, or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distributing any income or profit among itsor their members. Such institution or institutions shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Board of Trustees of the Sihala SaranaPin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.