PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PARTITION (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 27 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th of May, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 17, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 2024

[Certified on 13th of May, 2024]

L.D.-O. 68/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PARTITION LAW, NO. 21 OF 1977

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Partition (Amendment)Act, No. 27 of 2024.

2. Section 15 of the Partition Law, No. 21 of 1977(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) thereof, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsections:-

“(2) Every Grama Niladhari to whom a copy ofsuch notice and a copy of a translation thereof aresent by registered post under subsection (1) of thissection shall cause the contents of the notice,including the Schedule of the land or lands, as thecase may be, to be exhibited in a banner displayed,in the manner as may be prescribed by regulations,in a conspicuous place in his office or close to hisoffice for a period of not less than thirty days, andshall forward to the court a report to that effectsubstantially in the form set out in the SecondSchedule.

(3) The Grama Niladhari shall also cause thecontents of the notice sent to him under subsection(1) of this section, including the Schedule of theland or lands, as the case may be-

(a)to be exhibited in a banner, in aconspicuous position in the land or lands,as the case may be, in the manners as maybe prescribed by regulations; and

Short title

Amendment ofsection 15 ofLaw, No. 21 of1977

Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 20242

(b)to be orally proclaimed by way of publicannouncement made using a loudspeakerat such land or each of such lands and atany public place close to such land or eachof such lands, as the case may be,

and shall forward to the court a report to that effectsubstantially in the form set out in the SecondSchedule.”; and

(2)by the addition, at the end of that section of thefollowing new subsection:-

“(4) The cost of the publication done undersubsections (2) and (3) of this section shall be borneby the plaintiff in the first instance and shall berecoverable “pro rata”. The Grama Niladhari shallforward an affidavit to the court affirming theexecution of the publications referred to insubsections (2) and (3) of this section along withthe reports referred to in subsections (2) and (3) ofthis section within two months from the date ofreceipt of such notice.”.

3. Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

“(2) (a) The commission issued to a surveyorunder subsection (1) of this section shall besubstantially in the form set out in the SecondSchedule and shall have attached thereto a copy ofthe plaint certified as a true copy by the registeredattorney for the plaintiff.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment

3Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 2024

(b) The court may, upon transmit to it undersection 18 the plan prepared by the surveyor in theexecution of the commission issued undersubsection (1), order to issue a further commission,on its own motion or at the instance of any party tothe action, authorizing-

(i)the surveyor referred to in subsection (1)or any other surveyor whose name isspecified in the list of surveyors referredto in section 73, to survey any larger orsmaller portion of the land that wassurveyed under the commission issuedunder subsection (1); or

(ii)any surveyor other than the surveyorreferred to in subsection (1) and whosename is specified in the list of surveyorsreferred to in section 73, to resurvey theland that was surveyed under thecommission issued under subsection (1),

and the court may also direct the surveyor whoexecutes the further commission to superimposethe plan prepared under the further commission onthe plan prepared in the execution of the commissionissued under subsection (1) or to carry out any othersimilar matter necessary for the adjudication of theaction.

(c) In the execution of the further commissionreferred to in paragraph (b), the provisions ofparagraph (a) of this subsection, the provisions ofsubsections (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of this sectionand the provisions of sections 17 and 18 shallmutatis mutandis, apply in respect thereof.”.

Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 20244

4. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “after beat of tom-tom,” of the words “by way ofpublic announcement made using a loudspeaker,”.

5. Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of subsection(1) thereof, by the substitution for the words “the parties tothe action who were present at the survey,” of the words “theparties to the action who were present at the survey, thenature of their claims”.

6. Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forall the words from “Every party to a partition action shall,”to “a list filed as aforesaid.” of the words-

“Every party to a partition action shall, not lessthan thirty days before the date first fixed for thetrial of the action, file or cause to be filed in thecourt a list of documents on which he relies to provehis rights, share or interest to, of or in the andtogether with an abstract of the contents of suchdocuments and a list of witnesses. Where a party isallowed to intervene after the date first fixed fortrial, such party shall file a list of documents and alist of witnesses within thirty days of suchintervention. No party shall, except with the leaveof the court which may be granted on such term asthe court may determine, be permitted to put anydocument or witness in evidence on his behalf inthe action if that document or witness is not listedin the lists filed as aforesaid.”.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment

5Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 2024

7. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 24 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 24A of that enactment:-

24A. (1) Upon an application made to thecourt before the day first fixed for trail of theaction, in the presence of, or after reasonablenotice to all the parties to the action, the courtshall have full power of amending in itsdiscretion, all pleadings in the action, by wayof addition, or alteration, or of omission.

(2) On or after the date the case is first fixedfor trail, no application for the amendment ofany pleadings shall be allowed unless the courtis satisfied for reasons to be recorded that graveand irremediable injustice will be caused orthat a thorough investigation of title will beimpeded, if such amendment is not permittedsubject to costs or otherwise, and that the partyso applying has not been guilty of laches.

(3) Any application for amendment ofpleadings which may be allowed by the courtunder subsection (1) or (2) shall be upon suchterms as to costs and postponement or otherwiseas the court may think fit.

(4) The additions or alterations or omissionsshall be clearly made on the face of thepleading affected by the order; or if this cannotconveniently be done, a fair copy of thepleading as altered shall be appended in therecord of the action to the pleading amended.Every such addition or alteration or omissionshall be signed by the Judge.”.

Insertion of newsection 24A inthe principalenactment

“Amendmentsof pleadings

Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 20246

8. Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

“(3) Where the court decides that the land or anyportion thereof shall be partitioned, the commissionunder subsection (2) of this section shall be issuedto the surveyor who made the preliminary surveyunder section 17 unless the court decides to issue itto any other surveyor whose name is specified inthe list referred to in section 73 or where courtdeemed fit, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in section 73, to any other surveyor uponagreement of all parties who have been awardedany right by the interlocutory decree entered undersection 26.”.

9. Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “after beat of tom-tom,” of the words “by way ofpublic announcement made using a loudspeaker,”.

10. Section 36A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

36A. Any person dissatisfied with an ordermade by the court under section 36 may preferan application for leave to appeal to therelevant High Court established by Article154P of the Constitution in terms of subsection(2) of section 754 of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) against such order.”.

11. Section 45A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figures “under sections 36A and 45A” of thewords and figures “under sections 36 and 45”.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 36A ofthe principalenactment“Applicationfor leave toappeal

Amendment ofsection 45A ofthe principalenactment

7Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 2024

12. Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “by motion in that behalf,” of the words “by motionin that behalf, within ten years from the date of such finaldecree or of the final decree, if any, on appeal affirming thesame”.

13. Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (d) of subsection (1)thereof, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

“(d)the cost incurred in the display of the banner andthe proclamation made under section 15 and thecost incurred in the proclamation made undersection 17;”.

14. Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “damage to the land” of the words “damage to theland, or making any alteration to the character of the land,”.

15. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows:-

(1)in the Form prescribed under subsection (2) ofsection 15 which bears the title “REPORT BYGRAMA NILADHARI”-

(a)by the substitution for the words and figures“(Section 15(2))” of the words and figures“(subsections (2) and (3) of section 15)”; and

(b)by the substitution for the words “I haveexhibited the annexed notice withtranslations on the notice board of my officefrom ....19....to.....19” of the following:-

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment

Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 20248

“I have exhibited the contents of the notice,including the Schedule of the land in abanner displayed in a conspicuous placein my office and in a conspicuous place inthe land and orally proclaimed by way ofpublic announcement made using aloudspeaker at such land and at a publicplace close to such land from .... to ....”;and

(2)in the Form prescribed under subsection (1) ofsection 18 which bears the title “FORM OFSURVEYOR’S REPORT”, by the repeal ofparagraph (vi) thereof, and the substitution thereforof the following:-

“(vi) parties present and the nature of their claims;”.

16. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared thatthe amendments made by section 3 of this Act to section 16of the principal enactment shall apply to any action,proceeding or appeal instituted under the provisions of theprincipal enactment and pending or incomplete on the dateof coming into operation of this Act.

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Avoidance ofdoubt

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Partition (Amendment)

Act, No. 27 of 202410

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTINGEnglish Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.