PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCHCENTRE (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 2 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd January, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 26, 2007

1Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

[Certified on 22nd January 2007]

L.D.—O. (INC) 26/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MENTAL DEVELOPMENT ANDRESEARCH CENTRE

WHEREAS an association called and known as the “MentalDevelopment and Research Centre” has heretofore beenformed for the purpose of effectively carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidassociation, according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed, and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Mental Developmentand Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the MentalDevelopment and Research Centre (hereinafter referred to as“the Centre”) and shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of “MentalDevelopment and Research Centre” ( hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be suedin all courts, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and to alter the same at it pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to propagate mental training, developmental andresearch activities in Sri Lanka and other foreigncountries and to train those who are willing toundergo training in ‘Samatha Vidarshana’meditational system ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MentalDevelopmentand ResearchCenter.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

(b)to provide necessary facilities for training in ethicsand exercising and developing of mental disciplineand mental development etc. in Sri Lanka andabroad ;

(c)to provide necessary doctrinaire advice for resolvingmental crises, problems and any other similar issuesfaced by the general public, ;

(d)to encourage persons in various educationalinstitutions such as the universities, colleges ofeducation, pirivenas and schools in Sri Lanka aswell as abroad, interested in mental training,developmental and research activities ; in promotingthese activities and providing necessary requisitesand library facilities for such research activities ;

(e)to assist in the complete physical and mentaldevelopment of the young, youthful and agedpersons and to implement necessary programmesfor blind, mute and deaf children who require specialeducational facilities.

(f)to educate people who are addicted to liquor, drugs,and various vices and anti-social activities, with aview to salvaging them from these addictions anddeveloping their knowledge and skills and advisingthem on health habits ;

(g)to take care of the aged parents under the protectionof their children who are in employment and toengage them in mental training activities ; and

(h)to organize vocational training activities suitablefor school leavers.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power to —

(a)to solicit and receive or collect subscriptions, grantsand donations ;

General powersof theCorporation.

3Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

(b)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, and otherwise,obtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation ;

(c)to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise funds with or without security ;

(b)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation in such manner asthe Committee of Management may think fit ;

(e)to enter into agreements or contracts with any personor body of persons ;

(f)to charge fees for the re-enrollment of persons whohad been members of the Corporation ;

(g)to employ, dismiss or terminate the service of officersand servants of the Corporation and to pay themsuch salaries, allowances and gratuity as may bedetermined by the Corporation ;

(h)to seek aid, assistance and co-operation from anygovernmental and non-governmental organization,local as well as international, for achieving theobjects of the Corporation ; and

(i)to do, perform and execute all such acts, matters andthings as are necessary, incidental or conducive tothe carrying out or the attainment for the objects ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the timebeing of the Corporation be administered by a Committee ofManagement consisting of members elected in accordancewith the rules in force for the time being of theCorporation (hereinafter referred to as the “Committee ofManagement”)

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

(2) The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the Members of the Committeeof Management of the Centre, holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of the commencement ofthis Act,

6.The Corporation shall make arrangements to maintaina list of all persons holding membership in the Centre on theday immediately preceding the date of the commencementof this Act and enrolled as members of the Corporation afterthis Act comes into effect.

7. It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime at any general meeting and by majority of not leass thantwo thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other writtenlaws of the following matters :—

(a)classification of membership and the admission,resignation or expulsion of members anddetermination of membership fees ;

(b)election of the office-bearers the resignation from,or vacation of or removal from office of the officebearers and their powers, duties and functions ;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers and servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meethings, the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

(e) the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Corporation and the Committeeof Management ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

List of members.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of thecorporation and the accomploshment of its objects.

(2) Any rules made by Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may bemade under subsection (1).

(3) The member's of the Corporation shall be subjected tothe rules of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of purchases, grants, gifts,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules in force for the time being of theCorporation and shall thave full power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fee or grant for and on account ofthe Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theCorporation in one or more banks as the Committee ofManagement shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of moneyrequite to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporationin the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on theday preceding the date of the commencement of this Act, shallbe paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto the Center on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

Debts due byand payable tothe Centre.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

6Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assests, and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i) an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilites, anyproperty, whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given or,transferred to some other society or societies handing objectssimilar to those of the Corporation and which is or are by therules thereof prohibited from distributing any income or profitamong its or their members. such society or societies shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Secretaryor any member of the Corporation authorized to do so whoshall place their names to the instruments in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

7Mental Development and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007

14. No member of the Corporation shall be subjected topay any membership fees in excess of the amount ofsubscription due to the Corporation, on account of repaymentof loans and debts of the Corporation or for any other purpose.

15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe right of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other persons.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text of this Act shallprevail.

Limit onliabilities of theMembers.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.