PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LANKA CHILDREN’S AND YOUTHTHEATRE FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 3 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 29th January, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2007

1Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

[Certified on 29th January 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 14/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LANKA CHILDREN’S AND YOUTHTHEATRE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “LankaChildren’s and Youth Theatre Foundation” has heretofore beenformed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of undertaking,promoting, sponsoring and co-ordinating theatre activitieswith a view to developing a mentally and physically, healthychild who will be a balanced individual with a distinct culturalidentity capable of effectively functioning in the communityand for effectively carrying out and transacting all objectsand matters connected with the said Association, accordingto the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Lanka Children’s andYouth Theatre Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as are now members of the LankaChildren’s and Youth Theatre Foundation (hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody Corporate, with perpetual succession under the nameand style of “ Lanka Children’s and Youth TheatreFoundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with fullpower and authority to have and use a common Seal and alterthe same at its pleasure

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe LankaChildren’s andYouth TheatreFoundation.

Short title.

2Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to undertake, promote, sponsor and co-ordinatetheatre activities in Sri Lanka for children andyouth ;

(b)to provide and create where necessary, anenvironment conducive to the development, bothmentally and physically, of children and youth ;

(c)to train children and youth to be happy balancedindividuals with a well developed awareness of theirown cultural heritage and identity, capable offunctioning satisfactorily within society ;

(d)to promote multi-racial unity among children andyouth in Sri Lanka ;

(e)to affiliate and laise with other bodies with similarobjects with a view to facilitating the exchange ofideas, knowledge and experience ; and

(f)to do all other things as are necessary for, orconducive to, the attainment of the above object.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform andexecute all such Acts, matters and things whatsoever, as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money with or without security, to seek, receive or tocollect grants and donations and other assistance from theState or any other bodies or organizations, to invest itsfunds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers andservants required for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

3Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation for the time being in force, beadministered by a Council of Management consisting of sevenpersons as may be provided for in such rules and elected ornominated in accordance with such rules. The term of officeof the Council of Management shall be two years.

(2) The first Council of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Council of Management ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, such Councilshall hold office until a Council of Management is elected ornominated in accordance of the rules of the Corporation forthe time being inforce.

6.(1) The membership of the Corporation shall consistof ordinary members and associate members.

(2) The Council may, however subject to the rules of theCorporation for the time being inforce, admit as members, ofsuch classes and with such privileges and obligations as itmay prescribe, persons not eligible as ordinary members orassociate members.

(3) A separate register of associate members shall bemaintained and they shall enjoy the same privileges asordinary members but shall not be eligible to vote at meetingsof the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any general meeting and by the majority of two-thirds of the members qualified to vote, to make rules, notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any otherwritten law for the management of the affairs of theCorporation (including the holding of meetings, transactionof business at meetings, the preparation of the annual reports&c,.) and the accomplishment of its objects.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Membership ofthe Corporation.

4Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day precedingthe date of the commencement of this Act, shall in so far asthey are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law, be deemed to be rules of the Corporationmade under this section and may be altered, added to,amended or rescinded in like manner as a rule made undersubsection (1).

(3) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,added to amended or rescinded in like manner as a rule madeunder subsection (1).

(4) All members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act and the rules of the Corporation for the time being inforce, be able and capable in law—

(a)to acquire by way of purchase, exchange, gift, deviseor bequest or in any other manner, or to hold andenjoy in perpetuity or for any lesser term subject toany express trust or otherwise, any propertyimmovable or movable of any nature or kindwhatsoever ;

(b)to erect any building on any immovable propertyvested in or acquired or held by the Corporation ;and

(c)to sell, grant, convey, assign, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of any such property.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law tocharge such fees and subscriptions from its members as theCorporation may deem reasonable in respect of the servicesprovided by the Corporation.

Power of theCorporation tohold and dealwith property.

Power to chargefees andsubscriptions.

5Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assests and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of thecommencement of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to, and all subscriptions,contributions and fees payable to the Foundation on that dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of persons as may be provided for in the rules in forcefor the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Accounts of theCorporation.

6Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007

13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the republic or of any body politic orcorporate, or of any other persons, except such as arementioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or underthem.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to some other institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is orare by the rules prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its or their members.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.