SPECIAL EDUCATIONALSOCIETY (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 3 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 10th February, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

Internet Version

1Special Educational Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 3 of 1999

[Certified on 10th February, 1999]

L.D.–O.18/95.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Special Educational Society” has heretofore been formed atPolommaruwa, Tangalle for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Association according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was formed, and has applied to beincorporated and now it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the Special EducationalSociety (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 1999.

2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such andso many persons as now are members of the SpecialEducational Society, Polommaruwa, Tangalle (hereinafterreferred to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation here by constituted shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession under the name and style of “SpecialEducational Society” and by that name may sue and be sued,in all Courts with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be–

(a) to rehabilitate disabled persons, by providing themwith educational services and engaging them in so-cial services ;

(b) to grant awards to disabled persons ;

preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe SpecialEducationalSociety.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

H - 022545

2Special Educational Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 3 of 1999

(c) to provide necessary aid and assistance to victimsof natural disasters ;

(d) to protect and safeguard the rights of disabledpersons ;

(e) to provide nutritious food, medical facilities,vocational training and employment to disabledpersons ;

(f) to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe forand issue books, journals, souvenirs and periodicals ;

(g) to promote, arrange, organize and hold, exhibitions,lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,debates, conferences, tours and excursions ;

(h) to co-operate and associate, with other associations,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation ;

(i) to do all such other acts and things as are conduciveor incidental to , the attainment of all or any of theabove objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary of desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of suchnumber of members as may be provided for in such rules,and elected in accordance therewith.

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Special Educational Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 3 of 1999

(2) The First Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Management ofthe Society holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act and, whose names arespecified in the Schedule hereto.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :–

(a) the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b) the clection of the office - bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from, officeof, office bearers, and their powers, conduct andduties ;

(c) the election of the members of the Board ofManagement and its powers, conduct and dutiesand the terms of members of the Board ofManagement ;

(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding, of meetings of the Board ofManagement, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meetings, the quorum therefore and theconduct of bussinetss thereat ;

(f) the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, andthe maintenance and audit of its accounts ; and

(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Special Educational Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 3 of 1999

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting andin like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subjectto the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,request, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard of Management shall determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fundor a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development or improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of theCorporation all sums of money to defray any expenditureincurred of the Corporation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

8. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporaiton hereby constituted and all debtsdue to, subcriptions and contributions payable to the societyon the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,llease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Funds of theCorporation.

Debts due by andpayable to theSociety.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

5Special Educational Society (Incorporation)Act, No. 3 of 1999

Propertyremaining ofdissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there remainsafter the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any property,whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation but shall be given or transferredto some other Society or Societies having objects, similar tothose of the Corporation and which is or are by the rulesprohibited from distributing any income or profit among itsor their members. Such Society or Societies shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Executive Secretary and it shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of the Presidentand the Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any such person as witness.

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic of corporateor any other person except such as are mentioned in this Act,and those claiming by, from, or under, them.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shal prevail.

SCHEDULE[Section 5 (2)]

Board of Management

President :Mr. E. A. S. DissanayakeVice President :Mr. H. T. KusumapalaExecutive Secretary :Mr. W. R. PereraSecretary :Mr. W. T. PereraAsst. Secretary :Mr. L. LiyanagmaTreasurer :Mr. W. P. PereraManager :Mr. P. V. Vijayaratna

Committee Members

Mr. K. V. AriyasenaMr. Sugath HettigeMr. W. A. SiripalaMr. W. A. PiyasiriMr. P. M. Sirisena

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofInconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.