PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BANKING (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 24 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 10th of April, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 66.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

Short title anddate ofoperation

L.D.-O. 42/2023

AN ACT TO AMEND THE BANKING ACT, NO. 30 OF 1988

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Banking (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).

2. Section 2 of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyamended in subsection (6) thereof by the substitution forthe words “shall not include the Central Bank or a privatecompany” of the words “shall not include the Central Bank,a shell bank or a private company”.

3. The following section is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 2 of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as section 2A of that enactment:-

2A. The following matters shall be taken intoconsideration by the Central Bank indetermining whether a company is eligible toapply for a licence under this Act:-

(a)compliance with the initial capitalrequirements as may be determined bythe Central Bank, from time to time;

(b)the nature and adequacy of the financialresources as a means of continuingfinancial support for the licensedcommercial bank to be established inSri Lanka;

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 30 of 1988

Insertion ofsection 2A in theprincipalenactment

“Eligibilitycriteria toapply for alicence

[Certified on 10th of April, 2024]

2Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(c)the capital and other funding sourcesshall not derive from unlawfulactivities;

(d)suitability of material shareholders interms of subsection (1B) of section 12;

(e)fitness and propriety of directors, chiefexecutive officer and officersperforming executive functions or anyother person proposed to be appointedto any of the above positions, as thecase may be, in terms of the criteria setout in subsection (2) of section 42;

(f)track record for operating in a mannerconsistent with the standards of goodgovernance and integrity;

(g)transparency in ownership structure andthe beneficial ownership;

(h)establishment of a licensed commercialbank in Sri Lanka will be in the interestof the viability and stability of thebanking system and the interest of thenational economy; and

(i)compliance with any other requirementsunder this Act or any other written lawin Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka.”.

4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “in such manner” of the words “in suchmanner along with the application fee”; and

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the repeal ofsubparagraph (iii) of paragraph (b) and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment

3Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“(iii)a copy of the audited financial statements ofthe company for the preceding three years;”.

5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(1) The Central Bank may require any companyor body corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka,which has applied for a licence under section 3, tocarry out banking business through a branchthereof, to undertake to remit to Sri Lanka, prior tothe commencement of its business in Sri Lanka, asum of money determined in United States Dollars,or its equivalent in any designated foreign currency.The amount so remitted may form part of theassigned capital of such company or body corporateand shall be kept as a deposit with the Central Bankor in such other manner as may be determined, fromtime to time, by the Central Bank.”;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)thereof, of the following: -

“(4) Without prejudice to the provisions ofsubsection (1), the Central Bank may, having regardto the soundness of the financial position, riskmanagement, governance structure, capitaladequacy and availability of liquidity, require anycompany or body corporate specified in subsection(1) to establish within Sri Lanka as a subsidiary ofits parent company or principal body corporate tobe issued with a licence to carry on bankingbusiness in Sri Lanka.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

4Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(5) where a commercial bank incorporatedoutside Sri Lanka is operating as a branch in SriLanka immediately preceding the appointed date,the Central Bank may direct such bank to establisha subsidiary of a parent company or principal bodycorporate of such commercial bank to carry onbanking business in Sri Lanka, having regard tothe soundness of the financial position, riskmanagement, governance structure, capitaladequacy and availability of liquidity subject tosuch terms and conditions as may be specified insuch direction.”.

6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) thereof andthe substitution therefor of the following:-

“(a)whether such company is authorized to carry onbanking business;”.

7. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for the wordsand figure “(2) The Monetary Board” of the words and figure“(2) The Director of Bank Supervision”.

8. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) thereof by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereofand the substitution therefor of the following: -

“(c)become insolvent and winding up proceedingshave been instituted under any other written lawfor the time being in force, whether in or outside SriLanka and a liquidator or receiver has beenappointed for such bank in the interest of itsdepositors and creditors; or”.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

5Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

9. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “shall commence in accordance with theprovisions of Part VIII of this Act.” of the words“shall commence in accordance with the provisionsof any other written law for the time being in forcewhich specifically provides for the winding up ofany licenced commercial bank in Sri Lanka.”;

(2)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “close down the business of such bank inand with respect to Sri Lanka, in accordance withthe provisions of Part VIII of this Act.” of the words“close down the business of such bank in accordancewith the provisions of any other written law for thetime being in force which specifically provides forthe winding up of any licensed commercial bank inSri Lanka.”;

(3)in subsection (4) thereof-

(a)by the substitution, in paragraph (g), for thewords “such measures;” of the words “suchmeasures; and”;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (h), for thewords “such amalgamation; and” of the words“such amalgamation:”; and

(c)by the repeal of all the words commencingfrom “(i) vesting the business of the licensedcommercial bank” and ending with the words“an acquiring bank:”.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment

6Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

10. Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof,-

(a)by the substitution for the words “writtenapproval of the Monetary Board given withthe concurrence of the Minister,” of the words“written approval of the Central Bank,”;

(b)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words “(b) for a licensed commercialbank” of the words “(b) in consultation withthe Minister, for a licensed commercialbank”;

(c)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following: -

“(c)for a licensed commercial bank toacquire the business or part of thebusiness of another licensedcommercial bank, licensed specialisedbank or a licensed finance company, ora branch of such licensed commercialbank, licensed specialised bank orlicensed finance company, as the casemay be, or to sell all or part of itsbusiness;”;

(d)in paragraph (d) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words “within Sri Lanka:” of the words“within Sri Lanka subject to an applicationfee as may be determined by the Central Bank,from time time;”;

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment

7Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(e)in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words “licensed commercial bank or alicensed specialised bank.” of the words“licensed commercial bank, a licensedspecialised bank or a licensed financecompany;”;

(f)by the addition, immediately after paragraph(e) thereof, of the following:-

“(f)for a licensed commercial bank or alicensed specialised bank to acquire thebusiness or part of the business ofanother financial institution which issubject to the regulation or supervisionof the Central Bank.”;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (1B) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(1B) An approval under paragraphs (c), (e) or (f)of subsection (1) or subsection (1C) shall not begranted, unless the Central Bank is satisfied thatsuch acquisition or merger or consolidation is inthe interest of promotion of a safe, sound and stablebanking system, and the fair competition prevailingin the banking industry. When granting approvalfor an acquisition under subsection (1C) to anindividual or a body corporate, the Central Bankshall, in determining whether such individual orthe directors of such body corporate, as the casemay be, are fit and proper persons, have regard tothe criteria set out in subsection (2) of section 42 inaddition to the following matters:-

(a)track record of the individual or the directorsof the body corporate;

8Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(b)soundness and feasibility of the businessplans of the individual or body corporate;

(c)the nature and sufficiency of the financialresources of the individual or body corporateas a source of continuing financial support tothe licensed commercial bank and thelegitimacy of such sources of funding;

(d)the business record and experience of thebody corporate for the preceding three years;and

(e)transparency in ownership structure and thebeneficial ownership.”;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (1C) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(1C) (a) An individual, partnership or bodycorporate shall not, either directly or indirectlyor through a nominee or acting in concert withany other individual, partnership or bodycorporate, acquire a material interest in alicensed commercial bank incorporated orestablished within Sri Lanka by or under anywritten law without the prior written approvalof the Central Bank.

(b) Without prejudice to the generality ofsubsection (2), approval under paragraph (a) ofthis subsection may be granted subject to termsand conditions as the Central Bank may deemfit.

(c) Without prejudice to the provisions ofsubsection (3), the secretary of a licensed

9Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

commercial bank shall not enter in the share register,the index of shareholders or in any other registermaintained to keep records of shareholders of suchlicensed commercial bank, the name of anindividual, an entity (whether corporate orunincorporate) or a nominee of such individual orentity who has acquired the material interest incontravention of paragraph (a) and such person shallnot be recognized as a shareholder or a person to bedeemed as a shareholder of such licensedcommercial bank.

(d) Without prejudice to the provisions ofsubsection (3), where the contravention ofsubsection (1C) has been committed by an existingshareholder of the licensed commercial bank, it shallbe lawful for the Central Bank to direct such licensedcommercial bank to remove the name of suchshareholder from the share register, index ofshareholders or any other register maintained tokeep records of shareholders of such licensedcommercial bank, as the case may be, within theperiod of time as may be specified in such directions.It shall be the duty of such licensed commercialbank to comply with such direction with effect fromthe date of such direction for removal, and the saidshareholder shall not be considered or deemed as ashareholder of such licensed commercial bank untilsuch shareholder complies with the provisions ofsubsection (1C).

(e) For the purposes of this subsection,-

10Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“acting in concert” means acting pursuantto an understanding (whether formalor informal) to actively co-operate inacquiring a material interest in alicensed commercial bank so as toobtain or consolidate the control ofthat licensed commercial bank;

“material interest” means the holding of overten per centum of the issued capital ofa licensed commercial bank carryingvoting rights or, if the Central Bankdetermines that there exists asignificant influence over the licensedcommercial bank to nominate, appointor remove a director, chief executiveofficer or an officer performingexecutive functions of the licensedcommercial bank or to exercise controlover the policies of such bank pursuantto a contract or otherwise.”;

(4)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “by the Monetary Board with the concurrenceof the Minister.” of the words “by the Central Bank.”;and

(5)by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following:-

“(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin the provisions in this Act or any other writtenlaw, where the Central Bank is satisfied based onthe information submitted by the licensedcommercial bank or on its own findings that anyindividual, partnership or body corporate

11Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

specified in subsection (1C) has acquired thematerial interest of such bank in contravention ofsubsection (1C) or any terms or conditions of theapproval granted thereunder, it shall be lawful forthe Central Bank to direct such licensed commercialbank or such individual, partnership or bodycorporate, as the case may be, to dispose of suchmaterial interest subject to such terms andconditions as the Central Bank may considernecessary and after giving such bank or individual,partnership or body corporate an opportunity ofbeing heard.

(4) Until the disposal is effected undersubsection (3), the Central Bank may direct thelicensed commercial bank whose material interesthas been acquired or the individual, partnership orbody corporate who has contravened the provisionsof this section, or both such bank and the individual,partnership and the body corporate, as the case maybe, to give effect to, one or more of the following:-

(a) suspend the exercise of voting rights entitledto such shareholding or part thereof;

(b) notwithstanding to the contrary in any otherwritten law, prohibit such licensed commercialbank accruing any distribution rightspertaining to such shareholding or part thereof;

(c) prohibit the licensed commercial bank issuingfurther shares to or pursue any offer made bythe individual, partnership or body corporatewho has contravened the provisions ofsubsection (1C);

(d) except in a liquidation, prohibit the licensedcommercial bank paying any sums due,

12Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

including any form of distribution, to suchindividual, partnership or body corporate whohas contravened the provisions of subsection(1C);

(e) provide further details of such shareholdingacquired in contravention of subsection (1C)to the Central Bank, in such manner as theCentral Bank may determine; or

(f) request a licensed stock exchange or CentralDepository System to impose a restriction ontrading of shares held in excess of materialinterest, by any shareholder as a lockedbalance of his share account, until furtherinstructions to that effect is issued by theCentral Bank.”.

11. Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figure “(1) The Monetary Board may,with the approval of the Minister,” of the wordsand figure “(1) The Central Bank may,”; and

(2)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “before the Board under subsection (2), theMonetary Board shall, with the approval of theMinister -” of the words “before the Central Bankunder subsection (2), the Central Bank shall, –”.

12. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion of the following, immediately aftersubsection (4) thereof:-

“(4A) Any licensed commercial bank having a non-financial subsidiary that does not provide services tosuch licensed commercial bank or its banking group as

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment

13Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

at the appointed date, shall divest its ownership in theequity share capital of such subsidiary within a periodof five years from the appointed date, after notifyingthe Central Bank of such decision and the manner inwhich such bank will discontinue the business carriedout by such subsidiary.”.

13. Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words “and with theconcurrence of the Minister, determine, from timeto time.” of the words “determine, from time totime.”;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (d) of subsection (3)thereof, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:-

“(d) Where any licensed commercial bank isrequired by such variation to augment its equitycapital, it shall upon application to the CentralBank, be afforded a period of twelve months, orsuch other period as may be granted by the CentralBank, in which to comply with that requirement.”;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of subsection (7)thereof, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:-

“(b) Any variation in the capital adequacy ratioreferred to in paragraph (a) shall be communicatedto every licensed commercial bank by the CentralBank in writing, provided that every licensedcommercial bank which is required by suchvariation to augment its capital, shall be afforded aperiod of twelve months or such other period asmay be granted by the Central Bank, in which tocomply with such requirement.”;

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment

14Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(4)by the addition, immediately after subsection (9)thereof, of the following:-

“(10) The Central Bank may require a licensedcommercial bank to maintain additional capital asthe Central Bank may consider appropriate havingregard to the specific risks emanating from thebusiness of such licensed commercial bank.”.

14. Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor: -

21. (1) Every licensed commercial bankshall, at all times maintain liquid assets thatare required to meet its liabilities as may,from time to time, be determined by theCentral Bank and comply with therequirements on liquidity having regard tothe developments in the regulatoryrequirements, and the Central Bank shall, asfar as practicable, adopt internationalstandards applicable on liquidityrequirements of such licensed commercialbank.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions ofsubsection (1), the Central Bank may, fromtime to time, determine additional liquidassets required to be maintained by anylicensed commercial bank to meet liabilitiesand it shall be the duty of every licensedcommercial bank to maintain such assets insuch ratios as may be directed by the CentralBank.”.

15. Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor: -

Replacement ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment“LiquidAssets

Replacement ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment

15Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

22. The Central Bank may, from time totime, having considered the capital or liquiditylevels of a licensed commercial bank, issuedirections to such licensed commercial bankimposing conditions to be met by such bankprior to declaring or paying dividends, whetherscrip or otherwise, or transfer of profits earnedin Sri Lanka, outside Sri Lanka.”.

16. The following section is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 22 of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as section 22A of that enactment:-

22A. The Central Bank may, by Orderdesignate any foreign currency for the purposeof carrying on offshore banking business.”.

17. Part IV of the principal enactment is hereby repealed.

18. Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor:-

35. Every licensed commercial bank shallmaintain accounts and records and preparefinancial statements in accordance withapplicable accounting standards. Thefinancial statements of a licensedcommercial bank shall represent a true andaccurate assessment of the bank’s affairs andreflect its operations and financial conditionboth on a solo and consolidated basis.”.

“Payment ofdividends

Insertion ofsection 22A inthe principalenactment

“CentralBank todesignateforeigncurrency tobe used inoffshorebankingbusiness

Repeal of PartIV of theprincipalenactment

“Preparationof financialstatements bylicensedcommercialbanks

Replacement ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment

16Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

19. Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

20. Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

21. Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor:-

38. (1) Every licensed commercial bankincorporated or established within SriLanka shall,-

(a)transmit within three months afterthe closure of its financial year,to the Director of BankSupervision, its audited financialstatements in solo andconsolidated basis for suchfinancial year in respect of itsbusiness in and outside Sri Lanka;

(b)exhibit such statements in aconspicuous place at each of itsplaces of business until the soloand consolidated financialstatements for the succeedingfinancial year are prepared andexhibited; and

(c)publish such statements at leastonce within the period specifiedin paragraph (a) in at least one

Repeal ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment“Publicationof financialstatements bylicensedcommercialbanks

17Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

Sinhala, Tamil and English dailynewspaper circulating in SriLanka, and in the official websiteof the respective bank.

(2) Every licensed commercial bankincorporated outside Sri Lanka shall,-

(a)transmit within three months afterthe closure of its financial year,to the Director of BankSupervision, its audited financialstatements for such financial yearin respect of its business in SriLanka;

(b)exhibit such statements in aconspicuous place at each of itsplaces of business until thefinancial statements for thesucceeding financial year areprepared and exhibited; and

(c)publish such statements at leastonce within the period specifiedin paragraph (a) in at least oneSinhala, Tamil and English dailynewspaper circulating in SriLanka, and in the official websiteof the respective bank.

(3) The Central Bank may specify the formof the financial statements referred to insubsections (1) and (2) including anydisclosure requirements to be made and wheresuch form is specified, the financial statementsof every licensed commercial bank shall beprepared in such form.

18Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(4) Where the Central Bank determinesthat a disclosure made under subsection (3)does not contain information which is requiredto contain or is otherwise false or misleading,the Central Bank may, by notice in writing,require such bank –

(a)to publish a disclosure statementincluding the information that waspreviously omitted;

(b)to publish a disclosure statementwithout including false ormisleading information; or

(c)to take such other corrective actionas may be specified in the notice.”.

22. Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, -

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a), for thewords “the accounts balance sheet and profitand loss account” of the words “financialstatements”;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b), for thewords “the accounts, balance sheet and theprofit and loss account” of the words“financial statements”;

(2)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following:-

Amendment ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment

19Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“(1A) Where there are findings which to theknowledge of the auditor in the performance of hisduties under this Act, that-

(a)losses have been incurred or likely to incurwhich may materially reduce the capitalof any licensed commercial bank;

(b)irregularities have been occurred in suchbank, including the engagement of suchbank in unsound or unsafe practices incarrying on of its business which is likelyto jeopardize the interests of its depositorsand creditors; or

(c)the obligations to the depositors andcreditors of such bank are not sufficientlycovered by the assets of such bank,

the auditor shall immediately report such findingsor any other matter that can materially affect thesafety and soundness of the licensed commercialbank to the Director of Bank Supervision.”;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(2) Every report specified in subsection (1)which shall be completed within two months of theend of the financial year, shall contain a statementby the auditor as to whether in his opinion thefinancial statements contain a true and fair view ofthe bank’s financial position including thecompliance with the provisions relating to issuingof financial statements and making disclosures bya licensed commercial bank and where the auditor

20Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

has called for an explanation or any informationfrom any officer or agent of such licensedcommercial bank whether such explanation orinformation is satisfactory.”;

(4)in subsection (3A) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “shall be met by the Central Bank.” ofthe words “shall be met by the respective licensedcommercial bank.”;

(5)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (3A)thereof, of the following: -

“(3B) Where the Central Bank is of the viewthat an additional audit is required to beconducted in respect of one or more aspects ofthe business and affairs of a licensed commercialbank, the Director of Bank Supervision mayrequire such bank to conduct an additional auditon such aspects and the cost of such additionalaudit shall be met by the respective licensedcommercial bank.

(3C) The provisions of sections 38A and 39 inrespect of the appointment, duties and powers,and remuneration of auditors shall mutatismutandis apply in respect of any auditoremployed to conduct an additional audit underthis section.”;

(6)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (7)thereof, of the following:-

“(7A) The engagement partner of the auditor ofa licensed commercial bank shall be a member ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka

21Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

and shall not be subject to any disqualificationunder any written law in Sri Lanka or abroad frombeing appointed as an auditor.

(7B) Every licensed commercial bank shallchange the auditor of such bank once in every sixyears and shall change the engagement partner oncein every three years.

(7C) A licensed commercial bank which hasalready appointed an auditor shall comply with theprovisions of this section within a period of twoyears from the appointed date.”; and

(7)by the repeal of subsection (8) thereof.

23. Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “or any of its subsidiaries,” of the words “on soloand consolidated basis”.

24. Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) thereof, -

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (a) and thesubstitution therefor of the following: -

“(a) that such person possesses academic orprofessional qualifications and effectiveexperience in banking, finance,economics, accounting, businessadministration, information technology,risk management, law or any otherrelevant discipline as may bedetermined by the Central Bank;”;

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 42 of theprincipalenactment

22Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (c) and thesubstitution therefor of the following: -

“(c) that such person is not subject to anyproceedings, inquiry or investigationconsequent upon being served withnotice of a charge involving fraud,deceit, dishonesty or other similarcriminal activity, by any court, tribunal,regulatory authority, supervisoryauthority, professional association,Commission of Inquiry, or any otherbody established by law, in Sri Lankaor outside Sri Lanka.”;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following: -

“(4) Every licensed commercial bank shallnotify the Director of Bank Supervision in suchform as may be determined by the Director of BankSupervision, the name, address and occupation andif he considers necessary, any further informationof -

(a)each person proposed to be appointed, electedor nominated as a director of such licensedcommercial bank, before such appointment,election or nomination, as the case may be;

(b)any director of such licensed commercialbank, if such bank is aware that such personis not a fit and proper person or where suchdirector becomes otherwise ineligible to holdoffice as such director, within fifteen days ofsuch bank becoming aware of such facts.”;

(3)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (4)thereof, of the following: -

23Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“(4A) The Director of Bank Supervision may,upon receipt of notice under subsection (4), if heconsiders necessary, cause further investigation tosatisfy himself in relation to any of the mattersreferred to in subsection (1) or (2).”;

(4)by the repeal of subsection (7) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(7) A licensed commercial bank shall notappoint, elect or nominate as a director of thelicensed commercial bank, a person whoseappointment, election or nomination, as the casemay be, has not been approved under subsection(5) or subsection (6) and no such director shall bepermitted to carry out any duty or function of suchlicensed commercial bank in any capacity.”;

(5)by the repeal of subsection (12) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(12) The Board of Directors of a licensedcommercial bank shall have the duty to oversee themanagement of the affairs of the licensedcommercial bank including its governanceframework and be ultimately responsible forensuring that the business of such bank is carriedout in compliance with all applicable laws andconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.”;and

(6)by the addition immediately after subsection (12)thereof, of the following:-

24Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“(13) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other written law, the Central Bank shall,from time to time, determine the number of membersof the Board of Directors of a licensed commercialbank which number shall not be less than seven inany case.”.

25. Section 44A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(1) The Chief Executive Officer and such otherofficers of a licensed commercial bank performingexecutive functions as may be determined by theCentral Bank shall be fit and proper persons to holdsuch respective positions, and the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 42 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply in determining whether such persons are fitand proper persons.”.

26. The following sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 44A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 44B and 44C of thatenactment: -

44B. (1) (a) Where the Central Bank, inpursuance to findings of any examination orinvestigation conducted on affairs of alicensed commercial bank, is satisfied at anytime that a person who previously held officeas a director, the chief executive officer or anofficer performing executive functions ofsuch bank has committed or has beenconnected with the commission of any actinvolving fraud, deceit, dishonesty or othersimilar criminal activity or any otherimproper conduct during the period in whichhe served in such office which may disqualifysuch person to be a fit and proper person to

Insertion ofsections 44B and44C in theprincipalenactment

“Disqualificationof adirector, thechiefexecutiveofficer or anofficerperformingexecutivefunctions ofa licensedcommercialbank whopreviouslyheld suchpositions insuch bank

Amendment ofsection 44A ofthe principalenactment

25Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

be appointed, elected or nominated as adirector, the chief executive officer or officerperforming executive functions of a licensedcommercial bank, or any other financialinstitution regulated and supervised by theCentral Bank, it shall be lawful for theCentral Bank to determine that such personis not fit and proper, notwithstanding the factthat whether such person no longer holds suchoffice at the time of making suchdetermination.

(b) The Central Bank shall, prior tomaking such determination ensure that suchperson has been offered an opportunity ofbeing heard.

(2) The person so determined as not fitand proper under subsection (1) shall not beeligible to be appointed, elected, nominatedor continued as a director, chief executiveofficer or other officer performing executivefunctions of a licensed commercial bank orany other financial institution regulated andsupervised by the Central Bank.

44C. In the event of any conflict orinconsistency between the provisions of thisPart of this Act and the provisions of any otherwritten law for the time being in force, theprovisions of this Part shall prevail.”.

27. Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words “directions tolicensed commercial banks” of the words

This Part ofthis Act toprevail incase ofinconsistency

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment

26Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

“directions to licensed commercial banksconsidering the asset size, scale, diversity andcomplexity of operations of such banks”;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

“(c)the limit on large exposures which, havingregard to the equity capital, reserves anddeposits of such licensed commercial bankand other relevant considerationsincluding, as far as practicable, theadoption of international standardsapplicable on large exposures, as may bemade by such bank-

(i)to any single company, publiccorporation, firm, association ofpersons or an individual; or

(ii)in the aggregate to-

(A)an individual, his closerelations or to a company orfirm in which he or his closerelations have a substantialinterest; or

(B)a group of connected borrowersif at least one of the followingcriteria is satisfied:-

(a)control relationship, acompany and one or moreof the following having acontrol relationship witheach other:-

(i) its subsidiaries;

27Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(ii) its holding company;

(iii) its associate company;

(iv) a subsidiary of itsholding company;

(v) a company in which acompany referred to initem (a) of this subsubparagraph or itssubsidiary, or itsholding company, or asubsidiary of itsholding company, hasa substantial interest;

(vi) an individual having asubstantial interest insuch company and theclose relations of suchindividual; or

(vii) any other companyhaving direct orindirect control oversuch company as maybe determined by theCentral Bank;

(b)economic interdependencebetween connectedborrowers as may bedetermined by the CentralBank based onpredetermined criteria:

Provided that, it shall be lawful for alicensed commercial bank to comply withthe provisions of this paragraph within aperiod of three years from the appointeddate or such other period as may bedetermined by the Central Bank.”.

28Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

28. Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof;

(2)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (11A)thereof, of the following:-

“(11B) The provisions of subsections (3), (4), (5),(6), (7), (11) and (11A) shall apply to the followingpersons, and such persons shall comply with suchprovisions:–

(a)a chief executive officer or an officerperforming executive functions of a licensedcommercial bank in respect of anyaccommodation granted other than anaccommodation granted to such officer undera scheme applicable to the employees of suchbank;

(b)a shareholder of a licensed commercial bankhaving material interest, whether individualor a concern;

(c)a subsidiary or an associate company of thelicensed commercial bank;

(d)a holding company of the licensedcommercial bank including its subsidiaries,excluding the parent bank and subsidiariesof a bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka;

(e)a director of a subsidiary or an associatecompany of the licensed commercial bankand a director of a holding company and itssubsidiaries;

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment

29Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(f)a close relation of a person specified inparagraphs (a) and (b);

(g)a concern, whose director or partner is adirector of such bank; and

(h)a concern in which a material shareholder ofa licensed commercial bank or any of his closerelations has substantial interest.

(11C) Any person referred to in subsection (11B)who contravenes the provisions of subsection (3),(4), (5), (6), (7), (11) or (11A) commits an offenceunder this Act.”;

(3)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (13)of the following:-

“(14) (a) The Central Bank may require a licensedcommercial bank to deduct the amount of anyaccommodation granted by such bank in excess ofthe limits specified in subsection (4), to any relatedparty for the purposes of calculating the regulatorycapital ratios under subsection (7) of section 19 orrequire such excess to be secured by such securityas directed by the Central Bank.

(b) The minimum period of time that the CentralBank may afford to a licensed commercial bank tocomply with the provisions of paragraph (a) shallbe a period of twelve months or such other periodas may be determined by the Central Bank, whichin any case shall not exceed a period of three years.”.

30Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

29. Part VIIA of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

30. Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

31. Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words and figure “insection 54 the name of such bank shall be removedfrom the list of licensed commercial banks and” ofthe words and figure “in section 54”;

(2)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figure “in accordance with section 72.”of the words and figure “in accordance with section72; and”;

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (c)thereof, of the following:-

“(d) all monies or other articles held in a safedeposit box which have not been paid orreturned to the rightful owners under section54, have been transferred to a special accountof the Central Bank or are disposed inaccordance with the directions issued by theCentral Bank for such purpose, as the casemay be.”;

(4)by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,and the substitution therefor of the following:-

Repeal of PartVIIA of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 50 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment

31Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

32. Section 56 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor:-

56. Once all outstanding assets have beendistributed in accordance with the provisionsof section 55, the Director of Bank Supervisionshall direct such licensed commercial banksubject to voluntary winding up to submit theaudited financial statements of such bank tothe Central Bank for its approval. Once theaudited financial statements are approved bythe Central Bank, the Central Bank shall cancelthe licence issued to such licensed commercialbank and the name of such bank shall beremoved from the list of licensed commercialbanks.”.

33. Sections 57 to 69 (both inclusive) of the principalenactment are hereby repealed.

34. Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (4), by the substitution for the wordsand figures “with the undertaking. The provisions of sections63 and 68 shall apply to the winding up of the affairs underthis section.” of the words “with the undertaking.”.

35. Section 72 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figures “(1) In addition to the articlesreferred to in sections 63 and 68 the articles” of the wordsand figure “(1) The articles”.

36. Section 76D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof.

Replacement ofsection 56 of theprincipalenactment“Cancellationof the licenceissued to alicensedcommercialbank and toremove thename fromthe list

Repeal ofsections 57 to 69of the principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment

“Distribution of the outstandingassets among the owners of thelicensed commercial bank”.

Amendment ofsection 76D ofthe principalenactment

32Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

37. Section 76G of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1), by the substitution for the words“the Monetary Board may with the concurrence of theMinister,” of the words “the Central Bank may,”.

38. Section 76H of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figure“provisions of Part V” of the words and figures “provisionsof section 21, Part V”.

39. Section 76J of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words “regarding themanner in which any aspect of the business of suchbanks is to be conducted and in particular-” of thefollowing:-

“considering the asset size, scale, diversityand complexity of operations of such banksor for reasons to be stated in writing to anyone or more of them, regarding the manner inwhich any aspect of the business of suchbanks is to be conducted and in particular -”;and

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (k) thereof.

40. Section 76K of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figure“provisions of section 45 shall,” of the words and figures“provisions of sections 45, 47, 48A, 49 and 49A shall,”.

Amendment ofsection 76J ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 76K ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 76G of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 76H ofthe principalenactment

33Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

5

41. Section 76M of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (3) thereof, -

(a)by the repeal of subparagraph (i), and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

“(i)where the bank is incorporated orestablished within Sri Lanka by orunder any written law, proceedings forthe winding up of the bank shallcommence under the provisions of anywritten law for the time being in force,which specifically provides for thewinding up of the licensed commercialbanks and licensed specialised banksin Sri Lanka.”;

(b)by the repeal of subparagraph (ii) thereof, andthe substitution therefor of the following:-

“(ii)where the bank is incorporated outsideSri Lanka, the business of such bankauthorized under the licence issuedunder section 76A shall be closed downand its affairs shall be wound up underthe provisions of any written law forthe time being in force, whichspecifically provides for the windingup of the licensed commercial banksand licensed specialised banks in SriLanka.”; and

(2)by the repeal of subsections (3A), (3B), (3C), (3D),(3E), (3F) and (3G) thereof.

Amendment ofsection 76M ofthe principalenactment

34Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

42. Section 79 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1), by the substitution for the wordsand figures “subsection (3) of section 33, subsection (3) ofsection 41” of the words and figures “subsection (3) of section41”.

43. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 79A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 79B of that enactment:-

79B. (1) Without prejudice to any of theprovisions of this Act or any other written lawfor the time being in force, it shall be lawful forthe Central Bank, after affording anopportunity of being heard, to impose anadministrative fine on any person whocontravenes the provisions of subsections (1C),(3) and (4) of section 12, section 19, section21, subsection (1) of section 38 or paragraph(c) of subsection (1) of section 46 of this Act.

(2) The Central Bank shall, in determiningto impose an administrative fine, take intoconsideration-

(a)the gravity of such contravention;

(b)whether there is any recurrence ofsuch contravention;

(c)whether any loss or damage is causedto the depositors or any other personconsequent of such contravention;

(d)whether the person against whom afine is to be imposed is undulybenefitted from such contravention;

(e)the financial resources of suchperson;

Insertion of newsection 79B inthe principalenactment

“CentralBank toimposeadministrativefine

Amendment ofsection 79 of theprincipalenactment

35Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(f)any mitigating factors; and

(g)such other matters as it considers tobe relevant.

(3) The Central Bank shall determine the

procedure and manner for imposing an

administrative fine on a person under subsection

(1) and the amount of such fine, in proportion tothe contravention so committed.”.

44. Section 83A of the principal enactment is hereby

amended by the substitution for the words “and such bank”

of the words “licensed specialised bank and such bank”.

45. The following new sections are hereby inserted

immediately after section 83C of the principal enactment

and shall have effect as sections 83D and 83E of that

enactment:-

83D. The Central Bank may, if it considers

necessary, delegate any of its powers, duties

and functions under this Act to the Governor,

Deputy Governor, Assistant Governor, Director

of Bank Supervision or any other officer of theCentral Bank who shall not be below the rank

of a Head of the Department, or any committee

consisting of such officers of the Central Bank,

as the case may be, to carry on any such powers,duties and functions under this Act.

Amendment ofsection 83A ofthe principalenactment

Insertion of newsections 83D and83E in theprincipalenactment

“Delegationof its powers,duties andfunctions bythe CentralBank

36Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

83E. (1) The Central Bank may, by noticein writing, inform any person other than alicensed commercial bank, a licensedspecialised bank, a director, Chief ExecutiveOfficer or an officer performing executivefunctions of such bank, to furnish, within suchperiod as specified in the notice, anyinformation or produce any document asspecified in such notice and as the Central Bankmay consider necessary for the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers,duties and functions under this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, it shall bethe duty of any person who receives a noticeunder subsection (1) to comply with therequirements of such notice within the periodspecified therein.”.

46. Section 86 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “accommodation”, of the following:-

““Auditor General” means the Auditor Generalappointed under Article 153 of theConstitution;”;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “banking business”, of thefollowing:-

““beneficial owner” means a natural person whoultimately owns or controls ten per centumor more of a company, in whole or in part,

Amendment ofsection 86 of theprincipalenactment

CentralBank toinform anyperson tofurnish anyinformation& c.

37Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

through direct or indirect ownership orcontrol of shares or voting rights or otherownership interest in that company, andalso includes a natural person whoexercises effective control through othermeans, and beneficial ownership is to beconstrued accordingly;

“Board of Directors of a branch of a licensedcommercial bank incorporated outside SriLanka” means the Head Office or RegionalOffice of such licensed commercial bankthat supervises the respective branch or amanagement committee for which powerson overseeing the management have beendelegated by such Head Office or theRegional Office, as the case may be, to actas the Board of Directors of such branch;”;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition“concern” of the following:-

““control relationship” means the ability of oneborrower of a licensed commercial bankto influence over the activities of otherborrowers of such bank;”;

(4)by the repeal of the definition of the expression“Director of Bank Supervision” and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

““Director of Bank Supervision” means anemployee of the Central Bank who is thehead of the department of the Central Bankwhich is entrusted with the regulation andsupervision of the licensed commercialbanks and licensed specialised banks inSri Lanka;”;

38Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(5)by the repeal of the definition of the expression“domestic banking business”, and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

““economic interdependence” means thedependence of one borrower of a licensedcommercial bank on a business of anyother borrower of such bank where it islikely that the financial difficulties of thelatter may impair the repayment capacityof the first mentioned borrower;

“engagement partner” means the partner or otherperson in the audit firm who is responsiblefor the audit engagement and itsperformance, and for the auditor’s reportthat is issued on behalf of the audit firm,and who, where required, has theappropriate authority from a professional,legal or regulatory body;

“exposures” means accommodation and allfinancial investments;”;

(6)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “head office of a commercial bank”of the following:-

““international standards” means the standardsthat comprise of principles, guidelines,processes, or characteristics, that have beendeveloped through the consensus ofexperts from many countries and publishedby a globally recognized institutionincluding the Basel Committee onBanking Supervision, the FinancialStability Board and such other similarstandard setting institution;”;

39Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

(7)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “local authority” of the following:-

““Minister” means the Minister assigned thesubject of Finance in terms of Article 44or 45 of the Constitution;”;

(8)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “Monetary Board” of the following:-

““non-financial subsidiary” means a subsidiaryof a licensed commercial bank or a licensedspecialised bank which carries out thebusiness other than the business of a‘financial sector participant’ as defined inthe Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.16of 2023;”;

(9)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “non-resident” of the following:-

““offshore banking business” means theprovision of banking business by alicensed commercial bank in anydesignated foreign currency to non-residents, and to certain residents as maybe determined by the Central Bank, fromtime to time;

“physical presence” means meaningful mindand management located within a countryand does not include simple or mereexistence of a local agent or low-level staffof such country; ”;

(10)by the insertion immediately after the definition“resident” of the following: -

40Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

““shareholder” shall have the same meaning asgiven in the Companies Act, No. 07 of2007;

“shell bank” means a bank that has no physicalpresence in the country in which it isincorporated and licensed, and which isunaffiliated with a financial group that issubject to effective consolidatedsupervision;”;

(11)in the definition of the expression “substantialinterest” by the substitution for the words “onbehalf of such firm.” of the words “on behalf ofsuch firm;”; and

(12)by the addition immediately after the definition ofthe expression “substantial interest” of thefollowing: -

““unlawful activity” shall have the samemeaning as given in the Prevention ofMoney Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006.”

47. Schedule II of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in item (z) thereof, by the substitution for the words“to the buyer.” of the words “to the buyer;”; and

(2)by the addition immediately after item (z), thefollowing:-

“(aa) conducting offshore banking business.”.

Amendment ofSchedule II ofthe principalenactment

41Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

Specialprovisionrelating to theSchemesformulated bythe MonetaryBoard undersection 76M

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

48. Notwithstanding the repeal of subsection (3C) ofsection 76M of the principal enactment by this Act, anyScheme formulated by the Monetary Board under subsection(3C) of that section shall continue to be in force until theliabilities of depositors and creditors of the defaulting bankreferred to in that subsection are settled in full in accordancewith the terms and conditions of such Scheme.

49. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

42Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTINGEnglish Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.