PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

AL-HAJ ABDUL JAWAD ALIM VALIYULLAHTRUST (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 46 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th September, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 11, 2009

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20091

[Certified on 09th September, 2009]

L.D.— O. (INC) 7/2006.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AL-HAJ ABDUL JAWAD ALIMVALIYULLAH TRUST

WHEREAS a trust called and known as the “Al-Haj AbdulJawad Alim Valiyullah Trust” has theretofore been createdfor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with the said Trust:

AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said trust hasheretofore successfully carried out and transacted the severalobjects and matters for which it was created and has appliedto be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Al-Haj Abdul Jawad AlimValiyullah Trust (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of Board ofTrustees of the Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) or shall hereafter beadmitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be and become a body corporate with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Al-Haj AbdulJawad Alim Valiyullah Trust” (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued,withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andalter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to maintain and reconstruct the Mosques, QuranicMadrasas and Dargas which are vested in the

2—P L 003879—3,250 (05/2009)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe Al-Haj AbdulJawad AlimValiyullah Trust.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20092

Corporation and commence new Madrasas, as andwhen necessary ;

(b)to manage and maintain the Jamiathur-RabbaniyyaArabic Academy;

(c)to train moulavis in order to endow them with agood knowledge of the Islamic religion ;

(d)to organize and conduct seminars, workshops andspiritual training sessions for moulavis;

(e)to upgrade the spiritual development of persons oflslamic faith by the preaching of the Islamicphilosophy, “sufi” and by guiding them throughthe path of non-violence;

(f)to commemorate the lslamic religious leaders whorendered valuable service to lslam and to providepersons of Islamic faith with opportunities to studythe lives of such great leaders;

(g)to offer alms to participants of the commemorativeceremonies held in memory of Ajmir KhajaMueenuddeen (Jisthi) and other great lslamicleaders ;

(h)to carry out programmes for the betterment andwell being of children, youth and elders who areMuslims ; and

(i)to work in collaboration with other local and foreignorganizations in providing vocational training foryouth who are Muslims.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or

General powersof theCorporation.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20093

furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise monies with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referredas the “Board of Management”) consisting of a President andeleven members appointed or elected in accordance with theprovisions of this Act and the such rules.

(2) The First Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Trustees of the Trust holding office onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

(3) In the event where a General Meeting cannot beconvened the President shall have powers to make decisionsand also to make Wasiyyath-Advice in regard to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

(4) In the event of the death, resignation or removal fromoffice of a member of the Board of Management, the vacancyshall be filled in accordance with the provisions of this Actand the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by votes oftwo-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion ofmembers, the election of the office bearers of the Board ofManagement and otherwise generally, for the managementof the affairs of the Corporation and the attainment of itsobjects. Such rules when made may, at a like meeting and inlike manner be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20094

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation made in terms of this section.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debtsdue to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Truston that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act. The Corporation shall subject to the rules, of theCorporation made under section 6, have the full power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of suchproperty.

9.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein, and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend,loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by way of profit, to themembers of the Corporation :

Provided however, that the provision of this section shallnot prohibit—

(a)the payment, in good faith, of reasonable and properremuneration to any officer or servants of theCorporation for any services rendered by him to theCorporation ;

(b)the payment of reasonable and proper rent forpremises let to the Corporation by any member ofthe Corporation or by any company of which amember of the Corporation is a shareholder ; and

Debts due andpayable to theTrust.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Corporationto be a nonprofit makingorganization.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20095

(c)the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable andproper expenses incurred, with the prior approval ofthe Board of Management, by any member, officeror servant of the Corporation in the discharge orperformance of his functions or duties or inpromoting the objects of the Corporation.

10.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of donations, gifts, testamentarydispositions, transfers, contributions, subscriptions or feesshall be deposited in the name of the Corporation in one ormore banks as the Board of Management shall determine.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exerciseand discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the fund.

11.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) Separate accounts shall be maintained for theMosques, Madrasas, Arabic Academy and Service institutionwhich are under the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Board ofManagement.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such institute ; or

Funds of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20096

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchinstitute.

12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or such other member as may beprovided by rules of the Corporation who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Association orAssociations having objects, similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distribution of any income or property amongits or their members. Such Association or Associations shallbe determined by the members of the Corporation, at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Al-Haj Abdul Jawad Alim Valiyullah Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.