PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MAHAWELICULTURAL FOUNDATION TRUST(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 27 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th May, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 07, 2009

1Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

Preamble.

[Certified on 06th May, 2009]

L.D.—O. INC. 7/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THEMAHAWELI CULTURAL FOUNDATION TRUST

WHEREAS a company called and Known as the “MahaweliCultural Foundation Trust” has heretofore been registeredunder the provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982,for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allthe objects and matters connected with the said companyaccording to the rules hitherto in force and the Memorandumand Articles of Association of such company :

AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said companyhave heretofore been successfully managed and carried outby the Board of Directors of such company :

AND WHEREAS the said Board of Directors has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Board of Directors ofthe Mahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,the members of Board of Directors for the time being of theMahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust (hereinafter referred toas the “Trust”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Board of Directors of the said Trust shall be a bodycorporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) withperpetual succession under the name and style of the “Boardof Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust” andby that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have and to use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofthe Board ofDirectors of theMahaweliCulturalFoundationTrust.

Short title.

2Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to complete the sacred Kotmale Mahaweli MahaSeya, which is presently under construction andcarry out maintenance and rehabilitation thereof;

(b)to ensure and facilitate the performance oftraditional Buddhist and cultural rituals atMahaweli Maha Seya;

(c)to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars and makepublications in order to promote awareness aboutthe objectives of the Corporation;

(d)to act for the benefit of Buddhist institutions allover Sri Lanka giving priority to CentralProvince where the sacred Mahaweli Maha Seya issituated;

(e)to take every possible step to assist the progress ofthe Buddha Sasana;

(f)to protect Buddhism and popularize the righteouslife style preached therein, among Buddhists;

(g)to improve the educational activities of Buddhistchildren and to improve their spiritual values;

(h)to establish friendly relationships with Buddhistorganizations both in Sri Lanka and abroad;

(i)to protect cultural identities of Buddhists.

4.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make

General objectsof theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

3Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orother written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of or removal from office ofoffice-bearers and their powers, duties andfunctions;

(c)the election of the members of the Board of Directorsand its powers, duties and functions and theterms of office of the members of the Board and thefilling of vacancies of the members of the Board;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board of Directorsthe times, dates, places, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct ofbusiness thereat; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may bemade under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 4 of this Act.

5.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”) and all moneys receivedby way of gift, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution,fees or grants for and on account of the Corporation, shall bedeposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or morebanks as the Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund of theCorporation.

4Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Trust in any Bankor in any other institution, on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act, shall be transferred tothe Fund of the Corporation with effect from the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(4) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exerciseand discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the Fund.

6.(1) The Management, control and administration ofthe Corporation shall subject to the other provisions of thisAct and the rules made under section 4 of this Act, beadministered by a Board of Directors (hereinafter referredto as the “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Secretary,Treasurer, Vice Chairman, Deputy-Secretary and such othermembers, elected in accordance with the rules made undersection 4.

(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist ofthe Board of Directors of the Trust, holding office on theday, immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

7.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich every person who on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act is a member of theTrust and every person hereinafter duly admitted as amember of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.

8.The Corporation shall have the power to appointcommittees and to take such other steps as may be deemednecessary, from time to time, for the efficient discharge of thefunctions of the Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Register ofmembers.

Appointment ofCommittees.

5Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

9.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid or discharged by the Corporation and all debts due toand subscriptions and fees payable to the Trust on that dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them, including the power —

(a)to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind ;

(b)to acquire in manner whatsoever, hold and take orgive on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge or sell orotherwise dispose of any property movable orimmovable ;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instruments ;

(d)to open, operate and close bank accounts and borrowor raise money with or without security ;

(e)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation in such manner as theBoard may deem fit ;

(f)to erect or cause to be erected any structure orbuilding on any land belonging to or held by theCorporation ;

(g)to enter into contracts or agreements with any personor body of persons ; and

Debts due byand payable tothe Trust.

Powers of theCorporation.

6Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation.

11.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section4 of this Act with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

12.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Audit andaccounts.

7Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman or the Secretary or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to some other institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is orare by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members.The Boardshall determine such institution or institutions at the time ofthe dissolution of the Corporation or prior to such dissolution.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

How the seal ofthe Corporationto be affixed.

8Board of Directors of the Mahaweli CulturalFoundation Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.