PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 50.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 28, 2014.

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SIVMUNI SE VEHERA BUDDHISTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 43 OF 2014

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20141

2—PL 007415—2,000 (10/2014)

[Certified on 24th November 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 33/2013.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SIVMUNI SE VEHERA BUDDHISTFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation” has heretoforebeen established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to byits members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established, and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sivmuni Se VeheraBuddhist Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate, with perpetual succession under the name andstyle of the “Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by that namemay sue and be sued, with full power and authority to have, anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Sivmuni SeVehera BuddhistFoundation.

2Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be :—

(a) to maintain the religous activities of the Sivmuni SeVehera Buddhist Centre situated at Navagampura,Ampara ;

(b) to shape up the adherents of the Buddhism to ensurerighteous and religious society ;

(c) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities to—

(i)protect sacred places and historicalmonuments related to Buddhism; and

(ii)educate the adherents of the Buddhism toconserve natural resources.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by an Excecutive Committee(hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”) consisting ofsuch number of office bearers as may be specified by therules made under section 7.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor Province.

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20143

(2) (a) The Executive Committee of the Foundation thatholds office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall function as the Committeeof the Corporation until the first Committee is appointed orelected in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them including the power:—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation ;

Powers of theCorporation.

4Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the Corporation, in suchmanner as the Committee may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the Corporation;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20145

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members ;

(b)the election of office bearers of the committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee or anysub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the Corporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

6Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under sub section (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(4) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Committee to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualiafied auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

Register ofmembers.

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20147

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anaccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the Corporation for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServicesOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the Corporation during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted, and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Annual Report.

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation.

8Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of theCorporation.

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by theCommittee.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at ageneral meeting by the majority of votes of the memberspresent.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20149

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

10Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.