PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FOUNDATION OF RURAL WORKERS ANDALLIED RURAL RESOURCESDEVELOPMENT (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 70 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th November, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 27, 2009

1Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

[Certified on 24th November, 2009]

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FOUNDATION OF RURAL WORKERS ANDALLIED RURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT.

L.D.—O.(Inc.) 13/2008

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural ResourcesDevelopment” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka forthe purpose of effectually carrying out it’s objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application :

Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Foundation of RuralWorkers and Allied Rural Resources Development(Incorporation) Act, No. 70 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural ResourcesDevelopment” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)or shall hereafter be admitted members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafterreferred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession,under the name and style of the “Foundation of RuralWorkers and Allied Rural Resources Development” andby that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and alter the sameat its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Foundationof Rural Workersand Allied RuralResourcesDevelopment.

2Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote activities in order to alleviate povertyand overcome economical, social and culturaldeficiency among rural communities;

(b)to bring amity, peace and harmony among ruraland plantation communities irrespective of cast,race, religious and ethnic variations;

(c)to develop socio-economic conditions of rural andplantation communities through education, self-employment, vocational training, smallentrepreneurship and all other viable means;

(d)to establish, maintain and promote projects for thedevelopment of agricultural, horticultural,livestock, other rural and cottage industries andfind marketing opportunities for such industries;

(e)to deveolp through unity and mutual understandingthe social status of rural workers and to minimizethe social setback of lower income group;

(f)to promote special programmes for women tointegrate themselves in to overall development andgender equality;

(g)to grant financial assistance, arrange bank loansand obtain government subsidies for rural andplantation sectors;

(h)to organize seminars, workshops, study visits,lectures and discussions, grant scholarships andawards, organize sports and cultural activities inorder to develop skills in rural and plantationsectors;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

(i)to establish pre-schools, parks, play grounds andcommunity centers to develop the mental andphysical growth of children in the rural andplantation sectors;

(j)to provide medical facilities for the rural andplantation sectors through the conduct of mobilemedical clinics and the provision of medicalequipment and medicinal drugs; and

(k)to print, publish and distribute leaflets, newspapers,magazines and books for the promotion of objectsof the Corporation.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation is carriedout to the greatest extends possiblewithout-distinction based on race, caste, religion, language,sex or political opinion.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Governors (hereinafter referredto as the “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairmanand other office bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.

(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of theBoard of Governors of the Foundation holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgagepledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,

Management ofaffairs of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

4Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain currtent, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law on all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from offcie of, officebearers and their powers and duties;

Rules of theCorporation.

5Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

(c)the election of members of the Board and its powersconduct and duties;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed or the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board, the time,places, notices and agenda of such meetings andthe quorum therefor and the conduct of businessthereat; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determined by the Board.

(2) All expenses incurred in the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid outof the fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

6Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

(3) The accounts of the corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Board.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Board may from time to time determineand shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever exceptwith the sanction of the Board and in the presence of atleasttwo members of the Board who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness. Theseal may be altered in such manner as may be determined bythe Board.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscription and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debets and liabilities of the Corporationor for any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers .

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

The Seal of theCorporation.

7Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

12.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the Corporation.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCorporation shall be able and capable in law to acquire andhold any property, movable or immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gifttestamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of theCorporation and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of, the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property, shall not bedistributed among members of the Corporation but shall begiven or transferred to some other association or associationshaving objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation,and which is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from thedistributing of any income or profit among its or theirmembers. Such association or associations shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of theCorporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable .

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

8Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied RuralResources Development (Incorporation)Act, No. 70 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.