PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THE FUTURE WORLD ORGANIZATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 50 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2009

1The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

2—PL 004217–3,150 (07/2009)

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC) 33/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FUTURE WORLD ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as “The FutureWorld Organization” has heretofore been formed atKatubedda, Moratuwa in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association, according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1.This Act may be cited as The Future WorldOrganization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the FutureWorld Organization (hereinafter referred to as “theAssociation”) or shall hereafter be admitted, as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of “The Future WorldOrganization”, and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have, and use a common seal andalter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to work for a future world for the mankind, with abetter tomorrow that is more cultured and devoid of

Incorporation ofthe Future WorldOrganization.

Short Title.

Preamble.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

differences and the living standard of which is higherthan that at present ;

(b)to provide relief services and assistance to thosesectors in the society who are at a lower level thanthat is expected ; and

(c)to give aid to those who have become victims ofdisasters and gone destitute.

(2) The Corporation shall ensure that the implementationof the objects of the Corporation shall be carried out withoutany distinction based on race, religion, language, caste, sexor political opinion.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and rules made under section 7 beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of thePresident, Secretary, Treasurer and Director for Planningand Operation elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Directors of the Association holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, who shall hold office until anew Board of Management is appointed under the rule ofthis Act.

5.The Board of Management shall cause a register ofmembers to be kept in which names of every person who, onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act is amember of the organization and every person who is dulyadmitted as a member of the Corporation shall be entered.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall have the power —

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation ;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Register ofMembers.

Powers of theCorporation.

3The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

(b)to borrow or raise money from bank and otherGovernment approved financial institutions ( foreignand local) and to receive assistance, for the purposesof the Corporation ;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts ;

(d)to invest any funds which are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the Corporation, insuch a manner as the Board of Management maydeem fit ;

(e)to solicit and recive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with anyperson, company or body of persons ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation ;

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(i) to perform and execute all other acts and things asare necessary or desirable for the attainment of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

Rules of theCorporation.

4The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from, office ofoffice-bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of theofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board ofManagement of the Corporation, the times, places,notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorumtherefore and the conduct of business thereat ; and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be keptof its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and allother transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannualy by a qualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means —

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such an Institute; or

Audit ofaccounts of theCorporation.

5The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of the commencement of thisAct, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted andall debts due to and all subscriptions, contributions and feespayable to the Association on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purpose of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise and subject to the rules ofthe Corporation made under section 7. All such property shallbe held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act, with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same. All property belonging to the Association on the dateof commencement of this Act shall be vested in the Corporation.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of persons as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be givenor transferred to some other Association or Associationshaving objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation andwhich is or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

6The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

distributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such Association or Associations shall bedetermined by members of the Corporation at, or immediatelybefore, the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body politicor corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepubilc andothers.

7The Future World Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 50 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.