INTERNATIONAL SHANTHEE DHARMAORGANISATION (INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 43 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 30th November, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 03, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

Short title.

Preamble.

H - 022545

[Certified on 30th November, 1999]

L.D.– O. 24/96.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INTERNATIONAL SHANTHEEDHARMA ORGANISATION

WHEREAS an Organisation called and known as the“International Shanthee Dharma Organisation” has heretoforebeen formed in Colombo for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all matters connected with the saidorganisation, according to the rules agreed to by its members;

AND Whereas the said Organisation has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the International ShantheeDharma Organisation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theInternational Shanthee Dharma Organisation (hereinafterreferred to as “the Organisation”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of“International Shanthee Dharma Organisation” and by thatname may sue and be sued in all courts with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter the sameat its discretion.

3. The general objects of the Corporation shall be -

(a) to promote universal brotherhood amongst allsections of the people;

(b) to assist in the promotion of racial, religious andcommunal harmony, and the eradication of socialdisabilities;

Incorporation ofthe InternationalShanthee DharmaOrganisation.

General objects ofthe Corporation.

2International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

(c) to co-operate with local and foreign organisationsin the pursuit of peace and harmony among thepeople;

(d) to promote and encourage the study of all religionsand all systems of philosophy;

(e) to establish, maintain, control and manage,hospitals, clinics, diagnostic centres, communityhalls, and to extend medical relief and aid in anymanner to the needy ;

(f) to train students and other persons for a life ofdedication and service to mankind and for thepropagation of culture ;

(g) to train students in small industries and to help them,financially or otherwise, to establish themselves asuseful citizens ;

(h) to construct, maintain and administer, orphanages,children’s parks, cultural centres, schools andcolleges ;

(i) to give aid, by way of scholarships or awards or aidin cash or in kind, to monks, volunteers and otherpersons engaged in the propagation of the objectsof the Corporation ;

(j) to promote, arrange, organise and hold exhibitions,lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,debates, conferences, tours, excursions or any otheractivity for the furtherance of the objects of theCorporation.

(k) to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe forand issue, books, journals, souvenirs and periodicalsand such other services as may be deemed desirablefor carrying out the objects of the Corporation ;

(l) to institute and establish, scholarships, awards,grants and prizes, and to encourage spiritual,philosophical and cultural studies ;

3International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

Powers of theCorporation.

(m) to co-operate and liaise with other associations,societies or organisations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation ;

(n) to send delegates to religious, philosophical, culturalor peace conferences in Sri Lanka or abroad ;

(o) generally to do such other things as are or may benecessary, conducive or incidental, to the attainmentof the objects of the Corporation.

4. The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of thisAct and of any other written law, have the power -

(a) to appoint, remunerate and exercise disciplinarycontrol over, such officers and servants as may benecessary for the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b) to receive or collect any aid, grant or gift in cash orin kind from any person, or body of persons,corporate or otherwise ;

(c) to establish branch organisations of the Corporationin foreign countries for the purpose of attaining allor any of the objects of the Corporation.

(d) to borrow or raise money for the furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation, and to execute anymortgage or bond to secure the payment of themoney so borrowed or raised ;

(e) to enter into or perform, either directly or throughits officers or servants or agents authorised in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts andagreements as may be necessary, for the exercise,discharge and performance of the powers, functionsand duties of the Corporation, or for carrying on theaffairs or for furthering the objects of theCorporation;

(f) to do all such acts or things as may be necessary forthe attainment of the objects set out in Section 3 ofthis Act.

4International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of theoffice-bearers and such other persons as may be provided forin such rules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1) of this section, Venerable Pelpola Vipassi Thero,the founder of the Organisation shall be the president of theCorporation.

(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Organisation holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement of thisAct.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by votes of atleast two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makesuch rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawal orexpulsion of members, election of the office bearers and theBoard of Management and otherwise generally, for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation and the attainmentof its objects including rules providing for the filling of anyvacancy in the office of President of the Corporation. Suchrules when made may, at a like meeting and in like manner bealtered, added to, amended or rescinded.

Administrationof the affairs ofthe Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Corporation inhold propertymovable andimmovable.

5International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

(2) The rules of the Organisation in force on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, in sofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Actor any other written law, be deemed to be the rules of theCorporation made under this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

8. All debts and liabilities of the Organisation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to, andsubscriptions and contributions payable to, the Organisationon that day shall be paid to the Corporation, for the purposesof this Act.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall be kept in the custodyof the President of the Corporation and shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchpresident and of such number of persons as may be providedfor in the rules in force for the time being of the Corporationwho shall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence, and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

10. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means -

(i) an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Debts due by andpayableto theorganisation.

Audit andaccounts.

The seal of theCorporation.

6International Shanthee Dharma Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999

(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practise as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, or of any body politic, or corporate,or of any other persons except such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by, from , or under them.

12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.