PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MUDITHA SOCIAL SERVICE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 21 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st June, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007

1Muditha Social Service Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007

[Certified on 21st June 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 12/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MUDITHA SOCIAL SERVICE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “MudithaSocial Service Foundation” has heretofore been formed atKurunegala in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said Foundation, according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Muditha Social ServiceFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of the“Muditha Social Service Foundation” (hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation, hereby constituted shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Muditha Social Service Foundation” and by that name maysue and be sued with full power and authority to have anduse a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to help children of any social, religious and ethnicbackground ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MudithaSocial ServiceFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Muditha Social Service Foundation(Incorporation) Act No. 21 of 2007

(b)to provide shelter, food, clothing, education andsecuriity for the poor children ;

(c)to grant funds to establish homes for children in SriLanka and to upgrade them as Vocational TrainingCentres ;

(d)to maintain the vocational training centres for thebenefit of the unemployed youths of different ethnicand religious groups ; and

(e)to do all such other acts and things as are conduciveor incidental to the attainment of all or any of theobjects of the Corporation.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money, with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employand dismiss officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall beadministered by an Executive Committee consisting of theoffice bearers and such other persons as may be provided forin rules to be made under section 6 of this Act and elected inaccordance therewith.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

General Powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Muditha Social Service Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from office ofoffice-bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee and its powers, conduct and duties andthe terms of office of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee ;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed at, and the summoningand holding of meetings of the ExecutiveCommittee, the times, places, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum therefore and the conductof business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Muditha Social Service Foundation(Incorporation) Act No. 21 of 2007

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constitutedand all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributionspayable to, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

8.The Corporation shall be capable in law to acquireand hold any property movable or immovable which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchangeor otherwise dispose of the same.

9.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,or of any other persons.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

The seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.