PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ZAM TRUST (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 72 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20091

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 31/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ZAM TRUST

WHEREAS a trust called and known as the “Zam Trust” hashitherto been established in Colombo for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Trust:

AND WHEREAS the said Trust has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and mattersfor which it was formed and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for public advantage to grant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Zam Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 72 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theBoard of Trustees of Zam Trust (hereinafter referred to as the“Trust”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be, a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of“Zam Trust” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)and by that name may sue or may be sued with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal, the same at itspleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote the advancement of education andknowledge, of Muslims and to provide scholarshipsand any form of financial assistance to needyMuslim scholars ;

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe Zam Trust.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20092

(b)to establish, construct and maintain homes for thepoor muslims and educational institutes,Mosques, hospitals and vocational training centresfor muslims ;

(c)to assist the muslim students in studies and otheractivities ;

(d)to promote, encourage, assist and undertakeactivities for the relief of poverty and distresscaused disasters and natural calamities in relationto muslims ;

(e)to provide basic necessities such as water andelectricity to the needy muslims ;

(f)to collect, classify, translate, print, publish anddistribute books, journals and magazines related toIslamic education amongst the muslim people ; and

(g)to promte, encourage, assist and foster activities forthe advancement of communal, national andinternational understanding, religious harmony,goodwill and peace amongst the muslim people.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten Law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyone ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise funds, with or without security,to invest, its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss officersand servants for the carrying out of the object of theCorporation :

5.The Trustees of the Board of Trustees of the Trust,holdings the office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall with effect from the coming

General powersof theCorporation.

Board ofTrustees of theCorporation.

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20093

into operation of this Act, be deemed to be the trustees of theBoard of Trustees of the Corporation.

6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 7 beadministered by the Committee of Management (hereinafterreferred to as “Committee”) consisting of the President, theHonorary Secretary, the Honorary Treasurer and not less thanfive Committee members to be appointed by the Board ofTrustees.

(2) The members of the Committee of the Trust,holding the office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to bemembers of the first Committee.

7.(1)It shall be lawful for the Corporation fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the Corporationand by majority of not less than two-thirds of themembers present, to make rules not inconsistent withthe provisions of this Act or any other written law, forappoinment of the Committee, for the conduct of theduties of the Committee and of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation, for the procedure in thetransaction of business and otherwise generally for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,added to, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3)The members of the Committee shall be subjectto the rules of the Corporation.

8. (1) The fund of the Corporation shall consist of—

(a)all moneys lying in the credit of the Truston the preceding date of commencementof this Act, which shall stand transferredto the Corporation from that date;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20094

(b)all moneys that may accrue to theCorporation after that date ofcommencement of this Act; and

(c)any donations or gifts rendered to theCorporation.

(2)All moneys lying to the credit of the Fundshall be utilized to defray the expenses incurred inthe management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by any one ofsuch Institutes.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation

Debts due byand payable tothe Trust.

Audit andAccounts.

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20095

hereby constituted and all debts due to and contributionspayable to the Trust shall be paid to the Corporation, for thepurpose of this Act.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary and may be altered in such manner, as maybe determined by the Committee. The seal shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except with the sanction ofthe Committee and in the presence of two members of thecommittee who shall sign the instrument in token of theirpresence. Such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Such Instituteor Institutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the dissolution of theCorporation.

13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Zam Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 72 of 20096

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.