PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 28th September, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SARANA BUDDHIST (RELIEF) FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 39 OF 2007

1 Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007

[Certified on 28th September 2007]

L. D. — O. Inc. 11/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SARANA BUDDHIST (RELIEF)FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and know as “The SaranaBuddhist (Relief) Foundation” has heretofore been establishedunder the guidance of Ven. Nakulugamuwe Sumana Therofor the purpose of propagating the practice of the teachingsof the Lord Buddha effectually and to carry out and transactall matters connected with the said Association according tothe rules of the Association

AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the Sarana Buddhist (Relief)Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007.

2. From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation” (hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the name andstyle of “Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

2—PL 001532—3,300 (10/2006)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofSarana Buddhist(Relief)Foundation.

2 Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to promote the cultural, social, economic andreligious development for the public advantage ;

(b)to undertake and carry out or sponsor studies andresearch on Buddhism and to promote the teachingsof the Lord Buddha;

(c)to provide care for, assist and support the sick,elderly, aged or needy bhikkus as well as generalpublic, where necessary;

(d)to provide assistance to under privileged children inbackward areas to further their education andenhance their skills.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to performand execute, all such acts, matters and things whatsoever asare necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtheranceof the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise money, with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations from either local or foreign sources, toinvest its funds and to engage, employ and to take disciplinaryactions including dismissal of personal required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation be administered and managed by aBoard of Management consisting of the office-bearers andsuch other persons as may be provided for in such rules andelected in accordance therewith.

(2)The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day prior to the date of the coming into operationof this Act and which shall hold office until a new Board ofManagement is elected under the rules of the Corporation.

Generalpowers of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

3 Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007

6.(1)It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the members and by thevotes of not less than two thirds of the members present andvoting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law for admission, withdrawalor expulsion of members, for the election of the office-bearersof the Board of Management for the conduct of the duties ofthe office bearers of the Board of Management and the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation and generallyfor the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may,at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added toamended or rescinded.

(2)All members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Board of Management shall cause properbooks of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure,assets and liabilities and all other transactions of theCorporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by one or more qualifiedauditor or auditors.

(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by laws, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident Partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto paractice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

Rules of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudits.

4 Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day prior to the coming into operation of this Act shall bepaid by the Corporation and all debts due and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Foundation on that date shallbe paid to the Corporation for purposes of this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property movable or immovable which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation with full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of suchnumber of persons as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation and who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence, and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.If upon the winding up or the dissolution of theCorporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debtsand liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shallnot be distributed among the members of the Corporation,but shall be given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhlalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Debts due by andpayable to theFoundation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution of theCorporation.

How the seal ofthe Corporation isto be affixed.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

5 Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENTINFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.