PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THAI-SRI LANKA BUDDHIST CULTURALCENTRE (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 43 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th October, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 2007

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20071

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Thai-SriLanka BuddhistCultural Centre.

[Certified on 12th October 2007]

L.D.—O. (INC) 3/2006.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE THAI-SRI LANKA BUDDHIST CULTURALCENTRE

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre” has heretoforebeen established in Mabima, Heiyanthuduwa for the purposeof effectually carrying out and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Association :

AND WHEREAS the said Association heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Thai-Sri Lanka BuddhistCultural Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre” (hereinafter referred toas “the Centre”) and shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and become abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre”(hereinafter referred to as the “the Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued, with full power and authority topossess, and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

Preamble.

2Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007

3.The objects of the Corporation shall be —

(a)to maintain and promote religious and culturalrelations between Sri Lanka and Thailand ;

(b)to promote the interests of Buddhism ;

(c)to foster Theravada Buddhist doctrine and way oflife ;

(d)to provide facilities for the study and the fosteringof Buddhism ;

(e)to encourage the practical observance of theBuddhism ;

(f)to promote unity and co-operation among Buddhistorganizations and Buddhists, nationally andinternationally ;

(g)to advance the moral, cultural, economic and socialwelfare of Buddhists ;

(h)to provide welfare facilities to the needy Buddhists ;

(i)to provide educational and vocational trainingfacilities to the Buddhists of the community ; and

(j)to co-operate with other associations, societies ororganizations, having objects similar to those ofthe Corporation.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to—

(a)open, operate and close bank accounts ;

(b)borrow or raise moneys with or without security ;

General Powersof theCorporation.

Objects of theCorporation.

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20073

(c)receive or collect grants or donations ;

(d)invest excess funds ;

(e)engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants,

for the purpose of carrying out the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, beadministered by the Executive Committee consisting of theChief Patron, President and not more than seven and not lessthan five other members to be elected in accordance with therules made under this Act.

(2)The Most Venerable Phra DhammapariyaththivediMaha Thera shall be the Chief Patron of the Corporation.

(3) After the demise or resignation of the said MostVenerable Phra Dhammapariyaththivedi Maha Thera, theExecutive Committee shall appoint a fit and proper personfor the post of Chief Patron on the recommendation of thePresident.

(4) The Venerable Rassagala Seewali Thera shall be thefirst President of the Corporation and shall continue to holdsuch office until and unless he resigns or vacates.

(5) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Executive Committee of theCentre holding office on the date of commencement of thisAct.

6.No person shall be elected as a member of theExecutive Committee if he or she—

(a)is not a member of the Corporation ;

(b)is not a Buddhist ;

Disqualificationto be a memberof the ExecutiveCommittee.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007

(c)is a person who having been declared a bankrupt orinsolvent by a court ;

(d)is of unsound mind ; or

(e)has been by any competent court found to havecommitted any offence involving moral turpitude.

7.(1)It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the members convened forthe purpose and with the approval of not less than two-thirdsof the members present and voting, to make rules, notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw for—

(a)the admission, withdrawal or expulsion ofmembers ;

(b)offices to be held by members of ExecutiveCommittee and election of the office bearers ;

(c)the conduct and the duties of the executivecommittee and of the various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed in the transaction ofbusiness at meetings,

and otherwise generally for the management of the affairs ofthe Corporation.

(2)Such rules may be added to, amended or rescindedin like manner as a rule may be made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing at thetime of the coming into operation of this Act, shall be paidby the Corporation, hereby constituted and all debts due toand subscriptions and contributions payable to the centre,shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due by andpayable to theCentre.

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20075

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoney received by way of gift, testamentary disposition,transfer, donation, contributions, or fees shall be depositedin the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as maybe determined by the Executive Committee.

(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development and improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging it’s powers and functions shall be paid outof the Fund.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law and possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

6Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007

11.The Corporation may take and hold any movable orimmovable property by right of purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and subject to the rulesof the Corporation may sell, mortgage, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same. All properties belong to theCentre on the date of commencement shall be properties ofthe Corporation.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and anyone of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee, who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to some other Association or Associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and whichis or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. SuchAssociation or Associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at, or immediately before, thetime of the dissolution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the republic or of anybody politic orcorporate or any other person.

15. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Corporation mayhold and disposeproperties.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Affixing the seal.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20077

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.