PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 01, 2010

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 29th December, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

GRASSROOTS FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 77 OF 2009

1Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 2009

Short title.

Preamble.

2—004485—3,120 (10/2009)

[Certified on 29th December, 2009]

L. D. —O. Inc. 27/2008

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE GRASSROOTS FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an association called and known as the“Grassroots Foundation” has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with the saidassociation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Grassroots Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 77 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Actsuch and so many persons as now are members of the“Grassroots Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of theGrassroots Foundation (hereinafter referred to as “theCorporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have, and use a common seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The objects for which the Coperation is constitutedare hereby declared to be—

(a)To protect individual and collective civil rights, civilliberty and dignity of people irrespective of religion,race, caste, creed, color and social standing;

Incorporationof theGrassrootsFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 20092

(b)to educate the poor and marginalized people atgrassroot level on civil rights, fundamental dutiesand entitlements of the citizens of Sri Lanka;

(c)to promote economic development and socialupliftment of the poor and marginalized people atgrassroot level by organizing various skilldevelopment programmes and creating variousemployment oriented programmes;

(d)to promote peace, social justice, racial equality,religious harmony, mutual trust and respectamongst people of all races and religious faiths byorganizing various educational and awarenessprogrammes;

(e)to encourage people to foster their mother tongue,cultural values, good customs and traditions;

(f)to promote the right to information among urbanand rural poor by providing training in computersand computer technology and various otherifnormation technology programmes;

(g)to introduce training programmes to enhancecommunication skills and technological skills ofpoor and needy;

(h)to work in close association with Governmentaland Non-Governmental Organizations, religiousbodies, cultural groups, International organizationsand other institutions and organizations in order toachieve the objects of the Corporation.

(2) The Corporation shall ensure that the implementationof the objects of the Corporation shall be carried out withoutany distinction based on race, religion, language, caste, sexor political opinion.

3Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 2009

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the pruposes of the Corporation;

(b)to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to enter into contracts partnerships or agreementswith any Govrnmental or non Governmentalorganizations or any other person or institutionwhether in Sri Lanka or abroad;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board of Management may determine;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(h)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

Powers of theFoundation.

Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 20094

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of the Act and subject to therules of Corporation, made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of thesame.

6.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Actbe administered by a Board of Management consisting ofsuch number of office bearers elected in the manner as maybe provided by the rules of the Corporation made undersection 7.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Management ofthe Foundatin who hold office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from to time,at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a majorityof not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisins of this Actor any other written law, for all or any of the followingmatters:—

(a)the classificatin of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board ofManagement or vacation of or removal from officeand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the appointment, powers, functions and duties andthe terms and conditions of the various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 2009

(d)the procedure to be followed at the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board ofManagement, the Corporaiton or any sub-committee thereof, filling of vacancies, notices andagenda of such meetings, the quorum and theconduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications for membersof the Board of Management and the Corporation;and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation for the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or resicned at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation made under thissection.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, berquest, donation,subscription, contribution, fess or grnat for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board of Management to the credit of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

Found of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 20096

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactins of the Corporaitn.

(3) The accounts of the Corporatin shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Board ofManagement.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accounts of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, who possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, who possesses a certificate topractise as an Accountant, issued by the Council ofsuch Institute.

10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediatley preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to and subscription and contributionspayable to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporaitn shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporaitn, orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from time to time to the Corporation.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Limitatin ofliability ofmembers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

7Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 2009

be given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions having objects similar to those of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules prohibitedfrom distributing any income or property among its or theirmembers.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board of Management of the Corporationand who shall sign their names to the instrument in token oftheir presence and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Repbublic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCoporation.

Grassroots Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 77 of 20098

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.