PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RANGA ART INSTITUTE (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 11 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th March, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 20, 2009

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 20091

Short title.

Preamble.

[Certified on 18th March, 2009]

L.D.—O. INC 2/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RANGA ART INSTITUTE

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Ranga ArtInstitute” has therefore formed at Kahapola, Piliyandala, inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidAssociation, according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Ranga Art Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 11 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “RangaArt Institute” (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) orshall hereafter be admitted as members of the Institute herebyconstituted, shall be and become a body corporate (hereinafterreferred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual succession,under the name and style of the “Ranga Art Institute” and bythat name may sue, and be sued, in all courts, with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal and alter thesame at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to contribute in different ways with a view tobequeathing, drumming and dancing which are ourtraditional cultural legacies to the future generation;

Incorporation ofthe “Ranga ArtInstitute.”

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 2009

(b)to maintain the Ranaga Institute of Art at a highstandard as a Faculty of Arts and Crafts;

(c)to formulate a five year full time non-paying coursefor pupils of the traditional Dancing and DrummingArts and the production and repair of instruments;

(d)to encourage the safeguarding of Dancingand Drumming and to implement programmesconnected thereto;

(e)to foster and protect our cultural heritage;

(f)to make traditional arts attractive to the youth bythe enrichment of the traditional drumming anddancing through new trends;

(g)to initiate national and regional level programmeswith the participation of the youth for the protectionof the traditional system of arts;

(h)to participate actively in the religious, cultural andsocial activities within and outside the country;

(i)to give students the opportunity practicipating invarious cultural programmes;

(j)to give students the necessary financial strength tobecome successfull enterprenures at the end of theircourses;

(k)to implement a special social insurance project forthe upliftment of the living standards of thetraditional Artists and the fostering of retiredartists; and

(l)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 20093

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and the rules as made by theCorporation under the section 7 of the Corporation, beadministered by a Administrative Council (hereinafter referredto as the “Council”) consisting of the Dean of the Institute,Deputy Dean of the Institute, Assistant Dean of the Institute,the Secretary, the Treasurer and four other members as maybe elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Administrative Council of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Trustees of theOrganization holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

5.There shall be a Advisory Board which shall consistof five members appointed by the Council. The members ofthe Advisory Board may attend the meetings of the Council.The Board may grant advice, on various issues, but the Boardshall not have power to vote.

6.Subject to the provision of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purpose of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise money from the Governmentapproved Banks and other institutions or accept aidsand donations (foreign and local) for the purposesof the Corporation with the approval of the Council;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Power of theCorporation toacquire property,invest funds, andraise loans &c.

Advisory Board.

4Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 2009

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purpose of the Corporation, in such a manner asthe Council may think fit,

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants,donations and gifts of all kinds;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons;

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditions affectingany real or personal property;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officer and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the Corporation; and

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or aborad for thepurpose of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, andother written law for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)election of the members of the Council or vacationof or removal from office as office bearers andpowers, duties and conduct of the Council;

(b)the appointment powers, duties, functions andconduct of the teachers, various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation and termination ofService and payment of salaries of them;

(c)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council, the

Rules of theCorporation.

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 20095

Corporation or any sub-committee thereof, fillingof vacancies, notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum therefore and the conduct of businessthereat;

(d)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Institute and the Corporation; and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) The rules of the Institute in force on the day precedingthe date of commencement of this Act shall insofar as theyare not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law be deemed to be the rules of the Corporationand may be amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner as a rules made under subsection(1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to theRules of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and thefinancial year shall be from 1st January to 31st of Decemberof the same year.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contribution fees or grants for andon account of the Corporation shall be deposited in a bankapproved by the Council to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited atleast once in every year qualified auditor appointed by theBoard.

In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any

Fund of theCorporation.

6Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 2009

other Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theDean of the Institute and the Secretary or such other personduly authorized by the Council who shall sign their nameson the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate of any other person.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)Act, No. 11 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.