PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 08th April, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

JAGADDALA SOCIAL WELFAREINSTITUTE (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 21 OF 2009

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 20091

Short title.

Incorporationof theJagaddalaSocialwelfareInstitute.

[Certified on 08th April, 2009]

L. D. — O. (Inc.) 18/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JAGADDALA SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the“JagaddalaSocial Welfare Institute” has heretofore been formed at SriPunyawardanaramaya, Kindelpitiya, Bandaragama for thepurpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objectsand matters connected with the said Institute according tothe rules agreed by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofor successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Jagaddala Social WelfareInstitute (Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of the“Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute” (hereinafter referred toas the “Institute”) or shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “JaggaddalaSocial Welfare Institute” and by that name may sue and besued, with full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isformed are hereby declared to be —

(a)to establish and maintain homes for the orphanedabandoned and destitute children with the approvalof the Proboation and Child Care ServicesDepartment;

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009

(b)to ensure the provision and maintenance ofcomfortable living standards for the children in thehomes ;

(c)to provide facilities needed for the continuouseducational development and development ofcreative abilities of the children in the homes;

(d)to provide vocational career guidance andvocational training facilities to the children in thehomes;

(e)to monitor and assist where necessary in the futurewell being of the children who have left the homesafter being resident there.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform andexecute, all such acts, matters and things as are necessary ordesirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects ofthe Corporation or any one of them, including the power toopen, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raisemoney with or without security, to receive or collect grantsand donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ anddismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying out ofthe objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules of theCorporation made under section 6, be administered by aCommittee of Management (hereinafter referred to as “theCommittee”) consisting of the President, Vice president, theChief Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, Assistant Secretary,the Treasurer and not less than eleven other members who areelected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1) Venerable Kindelpitiya Ariya MaithreeThero the Chief Incumbent of the Kindelpitiya

General Powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 20093

Sri Punyawardanaramaya shall be the first President of theCorporaiton and every successive chief incumbent shall bethe ex-officio President.

(3) The first Committee of Management of the Corporationshall consist the members of the Committee of Management ofthe Institute holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, on all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of office bearers, and tenure of officethe resignation from or removal from office of officebearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee,conduct and duties and the tenure of office ofmembers of the Committee and its powers;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions and tenureof office of the officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Committee, the times,place, notices and agenda of such meeting, thequorum of the meetings and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

Rules of theCorporation.

4Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009

(g)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,grants, donations, contributions or fees shall be deposited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Committee.

(2)The Corporation may establish a depreciation fundor a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development of the property of the Corporation.

(3)There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporationall sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporaiton in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby formed and all debtsdue to, subscriptions and contributions payable to, theInstitute on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Fund of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute.

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 20095

10.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or the Treasurer or an officerauthorized in that behalf and who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as witness.

11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year ;

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation ;

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “Qualified Auditor” means—

(i)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a members of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

Audit andAccounts.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

6Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.