PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DAMPE, MEEGODA,BODHIWARDHANARAMASRI MADURASAMA PIRIVEN VIHARASTHASANWARDHANA SABHAWA(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 22 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 2014

1Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

2—PL 005348—2000 (07/2014)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc) 30/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DAMPE, MEEGODA,BODHIWARDHANARAMA SRI MADURASAMA PIRIVEN VIHARASTHASANWARDHANA SABHAWA

WHEREAS a Sabhawa called and known as the “Dampe,Meegoda, Bodhiwardhanarama Sri Madurasama PirivenViharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Sabhawa according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Sabhawa has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Dampe, Meegoda,Bodhiwardhanarama Sri Madurasama Piriven ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Dampe, Meegoda, Bodhiwardhanarama Sri MadurasamaPiriven Viharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa” (hereinafterreferred to as the "Sabhawa") or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall bea body corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the "Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa"

Incorporation ofthe Dampe,Meegoda,BodhiwardhanaramaSri MadurasamaPiriven ViharasthaSanwardhanaSabhawa.

Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

2

(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave, and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to protect and foster Buddhism;

(b)to conduct activities for the promotion of religiousfavour among Buddhist;

(c)to ordain Buddhist youth with the requisitequalifications and religious devotion and providethem with the four requisites;

(d)to teach the Dhamma and Vinaya to monks, to trainthem in Yoga exercises and to make them proficientin Pali, Sinhala and other oriental and westernlanguages;

(e)to foster and maintain Sri Ratnakara DhammaSchool and to assist the relevant authorities toestablish and maintain other Dhamma Schools forthe purpose of providing knowledge of the Dhammaamong the younger generation of the Buddhist;

(f)to establish, develop and maintain a Dhammalibrary;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

(g)to provide assistance by way of scholarships, cashor otherwise to monks, volunteers and other personsof the Buddhist faith, engaged in the furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation;

(h)to maintain buildings owned by the Dampe,Meegoda, Bodhiwardhanarama Sri MadurasamaPirivena and to construct and maintain newbuildings as and when necessary;

(i)to maintain cordial relations with other Buddhistorganizations in and out side Sri Lanka;

(j)to organise welfare activities pertaining to thesocial, cultural and economic upliftment of themembers of the Corporation; and

(k)to develop and maintain Dampe MadhurasamaMulika Pirivena.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, language, caste, sex, political opinion, placeof birth or any of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by an Executive Committee(hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”) consisting ofsuch number of office bearers as may be specified by therules made under section 7.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

4

(2) (a) The Committee of the Sabhawa holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Committee of the Corporationuntil the first Committee is appointed or elected in themanner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of anoffice bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rulesof the Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a) to purchase, rent, construct, or renovate lands orbuildings which may be required for the purposesof the Corporation and to deal with or dispose of thesame as may be deemed expedient with a view topromoting the objects of the Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternealResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Committee may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful turst or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects of theCorproation;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation; and

(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation.

Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

6

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee or anysub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorpration and the accomplishment of its’ objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

7Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of a gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and onaccount of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or morebanks approved by the Committee to the credit of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing .

Register ofmembers.

Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

8

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the Corproation for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairsand to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServicesOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A statement of accounts relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Sabhawa existing onthe day immediatly preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to and subscriptions and contributionspayable to the Sabhawa on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testementary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,the same.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Sabhawa.

Annual Report.

9Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

15.(1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by suchCommittee.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution, ata general meeting by the majority of votes of themembers present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Dampe, Meegoda, BodhiwardhanaramaSri Madurasama Piriven Viharastha SanwardhanaSabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2014

10

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.