PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FOUNDATION FOR CIVILIAN BRAVERY(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 4 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th February, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 20, 2009

Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20091

2—PL 003283—3,200 (09/2008)

[Certified on 16th February, 2009]

L.D.O.—(INC) 12/2006

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FOUNDATION FOR CIVILIAN BRAVERY

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “Foundationfor Civilian Bravery” has heretofore been established in1993for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it is now desirable and expedient thatthe said Foundation should be incorporated and it will be forthe public advantage to grant such application :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Foundation for CivilianBravery (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members for theFoundation for Civilian Bravery (hereinafter referred to as“the Foundation”), or shall hereinafter be admitted membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) withperpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Foundation for Civilian Bravery” and by that name maysue and be sued with full power and authority to have, anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be —

(a) to foster and promote respect for the protection ofLife;

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe Foundationfor CivilianBravery.

General Objectsof theFoundation.

2Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009

(b) to recognize and reward nationally andinternationally the voluntary act of any Civilian tosave life and on public property, at the risk of his life;

(c) the promotion of safety measures for the protectionof life ;

(d) the advancement of education, knowledge andtraining on the various forms of dangers ormisfortunes to Life and avoidance of them ;

(e) to create awareness of various dangers to life and ofsafety methods and techniques ;

(f) to promote activities in the sphere of protection oflife and Civilian Bravery ;

(g) to apply and promote measures against cruelty tohuman and non human life ;

(h) to be the catalyst to establish an internationalorganization to pioneer the concept of World CivilianBravery and protection of life ;

(i) to establish and maintain contact with internationalorganizations having the same or similar objects forpromoting Civilian Bravery and prevention ofmisfortunes and arrange international training,educational camps on misfortunes of mankind andits avoidance ;

(j) to honour Civilian Bravery in protecting life ; and

(k) to engage in and promote cultural activities and mediaexposures that help further the concept of CivilianBravery and methods of life saving.

Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20093

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow and raise moneys with or withoutsecurity, to receive or collect grants and donations frompersons in or outside Sri Lanka, to invest its funds and toengage, employ and dismiss officers and servants for thepurpose of carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by an Executive Council consisting of thePresident, the Honorary Secretary, Honorary Treasurer andnot less than two other members nominated by the Presidentin accordance with the rules of the Corporation, made undersection 6 of this Act.

(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shallbe the members of the Executive Council of the Foundationholding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1),the founder President shall be the President of the Corporation.

(4) Where the post of President becomes vacant afterfounder President, the next or nearest of kin of his familyshall be the President of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009

(a)classification of membership, fees payable by suchclass of members and their admission, withdrawalor expulsion of resignation ;

(b)the election of members of the Executive Counciland the office-bearers, resignation or removal from,or vacation of, office of, members of the ExecutiveCouncil powers, duties and conduct of the membersof the Executive Council, the appointment, powers,duties, functions and conduct of the various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(c)the procedure to be observed at, and the summoningand holding of meetings of, Executive Council andthe Corporaion, filling vacancies, notices andagenda of such meetings the quorum therefor andthe conduct of business thereat ;

(d)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Executive Council and theCorporation ;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as arule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations, contributions or fees shall be depositedin the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as theExecutive Council shall determine.

Fund of theCorporation.

Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20095

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions, under this Act.

(3) The moneys of the Corporation shall be applied solelytowards the promotion of the objects as set forth herein andno portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoeverto the members of the Corporation.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and it shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of two office bearers ofthe Corporation designated by the rules in force, who shall

Seal of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudits.

6Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009

sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence,and such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

10.(1) The Council shall cause to be kept, a register ofmembers in which every person on the day preceding thedate of commencement of this Act is a member of the Centreand every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of theCorporation shall have his name inscribed.

(2) The register shall contain the following particulars :—

(a)the name, address and occupation of each memberof the Corporation;

(b)the date on which the name of the member wasinscribed in the register;

(c)the date on which any person ceased to be a member.

11.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation, all debtsdue to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theAssociation on the day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

12.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation, madeunder section 6 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

13.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

Register ofMembership.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20097

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its members.

15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

8Foundation for Civilian Bravery(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.