MARKEZ ISLAMIC CENTRE (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 19 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 6th July, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of July 9, 1999

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

(Internet Version)

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19991

[Certified on 06th July, 1999]

L.D.–O.22/98.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MARKEZ ISLAMIC CENTRE

WHEREAS an Association Called and Known as the MarkezIslamic Centre has heretofore been established in Sri Lankafor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with the said Association,according to the rules agreed to by its members ;

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application ;

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the Markez Islamic Centre(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “MarkezIslamic Centre” (hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) andsuch persons as shall hereafter be admitted as members of theCorporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Markez IslamicCentre” and by that name may sue, and be sued, in all courtswith full power and authority to have and to use a commonseal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be –

(a) to encourage the observance of Islam ;

(b) to promote, foster and encourage research into, andthe study of, the Arabic language, literature and Islamicreligion, history and culture, in all their aspects ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MarkezIslamic Centre.

H - 022545

General objectsof theCorporation

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19992

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

(c) to promote, research on Islam in the Tamil, Sinhala,Arabic and English languages ;

(d) to promote Islamic culture and morality ;

(e) to facilitate the study of Islam and the Islamic way oflife ;

(f) to establish and maintain friendly relations with otherIslamic organisations engaged in similar pursuits, inand outside Sri Lanka ;

(g) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,magazines and pamphlets on Islam ;

(h) to provide educational material in Sinhala on Islam, forMuslim students studying in the Sinhala medium ;

(i) to administer, maintain and develop, the Markez IslamicCentre ;

(j) to maintain the buildings of the Markez Islamic Centreand to construct if necessary, new buildings for thepurpose of conducting classes, seminars anddiscourses in Islam ;

(k) to maintain the library and the lecture halls in theMarkez Islamic Centre and to establish new lecturehalls libraries to promote the study of Islam ;

(l) to receive funds for the attainment of the aims andobjects of the Corporation ;

(m) to promote educational and cultural activities ;

(n) to promote social and economic welfare activities.

4. Subject to the provisions of the Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and things asare necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19993

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

the power to open, operate and close bank accounts and toengage, employ and dismiss officers and servants for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and to hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation, with full power tosell, lease, rent, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation, be administered by a Committee ofManagement.

(2) The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall be the Committee of Management of theMarkez Islamic Centre holding office on the day precedingthe date of the commencement of this Act, and whose namesappear in the Schedule to this Act.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the daypreceding the date commencement of this Act shall be paidby the Corporation here by constituted and all debts due to,and subscriptions and contributions payable to the Centre onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act.

8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept with respect to –

(a) all sums of money received or expended by theCorporation ; and

(b) the assets and liabilities of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation and the balancesheet shall be audited at least once a year by any qualifiedauditor or auditors appointed for the purpose by theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Centre.

Accounts andAudit.

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19994

Powers of theCorporation toacquire property,invest funds, raiseloans &c.

(3) The Accounts of the Corporation and the balancesheet shall be open to the inspection of the members of theCorporation at all reasonable times.

9. The moneys and property of the Corporation howsoeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein, and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend,loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by way of profit, to themembers of the Corporation :

Provided, however, that the provisions of this section shallnot prohibit–

(a) the payment in good faith, of reasonable and properremuneration to any officer or servant of the corporationor to any member of the Corporation for any servicesrendered by him to the Corporation ;

(b) the re-imbursement or repayment of reasonable andproper expenses incurred, with the prior written approvalof the Committee of Management, by any member, officeror servant of the Corporation, in the discharge orperformance of his functions or duties or in promotingthe objects of the Corporation.

10. It shall be lawful for the Corporation–

(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise obtain,lands or buildings which may be required for the purposeof the Corporation and which may lawfully be acquiredfor those purposes and to deal with or dispose of, thesame, as it may deem expedient, with a view to promotingthe objects of the Corporation ;

(b) to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such manner as theCommittee of Management may think fit from time totime and to vary and transfer any such investments ;

(c) to secure the discharge of any debt, or obligation of theCorporation in such manner as it may think fit ;

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19995

(d) to receive subscriptions, grants, donations and gifts ofall kinds, locally and from aborad, for the purposes ofthe Corporation ;

(e) to construct, alter or maintain, any buildings requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation ;

(f) to appoint, dismiss or terminate officers and servants ofthe Corporation, and to pay them such salaries,pensions, gratuities and allowances as may from time totime be determined by the Committee of Management ;

(g) to establish or contribute to any fund or scheme for thegrant of gratuities, pensions, allowances or other benefitsto officers or servants, past or present, of the Corporationor to the relatives or dependants of such officers andservants ;

(h) to enter into any contract with any person, company,society or body of persons, whether corporate orunincorporate, for promoting the objects of theCorporation ;

(i) to give grants, endowments or scholarships for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(j) subject to the provisions of any other written law to doall other things necessary or expedient for the properand effective carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two membersof the Committee of Management of the Corporation whoshall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any persons as a witness.

Seal of theCorporation.

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)Act, No. 19 of 19996

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,or of any other persons except such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE (Section 6)

Committee of Management

1.Mr. Abdul Raheem Marikar Mohamed Najibdeen2.Mr. Mohamed Saleem Mohamed Farook3.Mr. Abdul Rahman Lebbe Mahmood Lebbe4.Mr. Abdul Jabbar Mohammed Jabir5.Mr. Abdul Wadood Mohamed Farook6.Mr. Mohamed Hussain Mohamed Fuard7.Mr. Shahul Hameed Seyed Mohamed Omer8.Mr. Mohideen Mohamed Anser.

Savings of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevailin case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.