PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SAMAJA SAHANA PADANAMA(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 64 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th November, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 13, 2009

1Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

2—PL 004386—3,190 (09/2009)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 12th November, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 24/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMAJA SAHANA PADANAMA

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the“Samaja Sahana Padanama” has heretofore been establishedin Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidfoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Samaja Sahana Padanama(Incorporation) Act, No. 64 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of the“Samaja Sahana Padanama” (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Samaja SahanaPadanama” and by that name may sue and be sued with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to assist individuals, families and communities indisadvataged circumstances ;

Incorporation ofthe SamajaSahanaPadanama.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

(b)to assist families of workers, farmers and suchother persons who have become indigent due toloss of employment, illness, disability, death orother cause ;

(c)to advise and assist workers who have voluntarilyresigned, retired or returned from foreignemployment with regard to the management of theirsavings or in the establishment of small or mediumscale enterprises ;

(d)to provide counseling and assistance to families offoreign employed workers to promote the well-being of such families ;

(e)to assist workers who have lost employment due toclosure of enterprises, retrenchment, redundancyor other cause to engage in self-employment orsecure alternate employment ;

(f)to provide counseling and to assist to workers andtheir families to settle problems and make claims asare relevant to their employment ;

(g)to provide or arrange to provide counseling servicesor treatment for persons having psychologicaldifficulties ;

(h)to provide or arrange to provide vocational trainingand assistance to disadvantaged young personsto engage in self-employment or to secureemployment;

(i)to provide or assist in providing or improvinghouses for families in disadvantaged circumstances ;

(j)to promote public health with special emphasis onthe improvement of the nutritional status ofdisadvantaged women and children ;

3Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

(k)to take steps to discourage smoking habit andalcohol usage among workers and their families ;and

(l)to promote the protection and improvement of theenvironment.

(2) In implementing the objects specified in subsection(1), the Corporation shall ensure that such implementationis carried out without distinction based on race, caste,religion, language, sex or political opinion.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to —

(a) acquire, hold or take any property movable orimmovable for the Corporation or give on lease orhire, mortgage, pledge, sell, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same, subject ot the rules made undersection 6 of the Corporation;

(b) enter into and perform or carry out whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d) advance or lend and to borrow money for thepurposes of the Corporation in such a manner andupon such security as the Corporation may think fit;

(e) invest its funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation in such manneras may be decided by the Board of Managementand to open, operate, maintain or close current,diposit and savings accounts in any Bank;

General powersof theCorporation.

4Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

(f) publish or cause to be published books, journals,magazines, other literature and establish andmaintain libraries ; and

(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over officers and servants as are required forthe carrying out of the objects of the Corporationand to prescribe their terms and conditions of serviceand dismiss such officers or servants.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6 of this Act, beadministered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referredto as the “Board of Management”) consisting of a Chairman,a Vice Chairman, a Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, aTreasurer, an Assistant Treasurer and nine other memberselected or appointed in accordance with the rules of theCorporation made under section 6.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Foundationholding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act which shall hold office until anew Board of Management is appointed under the rules ofthe Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, orother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office-bearers of the Board ofManagement, the resignation from or vacation ofor removal from, office of, office bearers and theirpowers, conduct and duties ;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

(c)the election of the members of the Board ofManagememt and its powers, conduct and dutiesand the terms of office of and the filling of vacanciesof the members of the Board of Management ;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board ofManagement, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meetings, the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of this funds;and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule maybe made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman and either the Secretary or the Treasurer who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,and such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

6Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees orgrants for and on account of the Corporation shall bedeposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or morebanks as the Board of Management shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,all such sums of money as are required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise,performance and discharge of its powes, duties and functionsunder this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Board ofManagement.

(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor ”means —

(a)an individual, who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute of

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudit.

7Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by such institute.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institution or Institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. SuchInstitution or Institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Corporation at or immediately before the dissolutionof the Corporation.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

8Samaja Sahana Padanama (Incorporation)Act, No. 64 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.