PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 2014.

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 21st August, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

BODHIRAJARAMA EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 28 OF 2014

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 20141

2—PL 006405—2000 (11/2011)

[Certified on 21st August, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc. 35/2011)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BODHIRAJARAMA EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Bodhirajarama Educational and Cultural Foundation” hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out it’s objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the BodhirajaramaEducational and Cultural Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 28 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “BodhirajaramaEducational and Cultural Foundation” (hereinafter referred to asthe “Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate, withperpetual succession under the name and style of the “BodhirajaramaEducational and Cultural Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as“the Corporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal and to alterthe same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation oftheBodhirajaramaEducational andCulturalFoundation.

2Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 2014

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the voluntary social services organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

3. The general objects for which the corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to take measures to develop all Buddhist templeswith the aim of fostering spiritual development ofthe Buddhists and to take all necessary measures toadd extensions to the Bodhirajarama temple;

(b)to encourage the upliftment of moral values of theBuddhists and commence and implement variousprogrammes for that purpose;

(c)with the aim of assisting the Buddhists, toimplement programs to establish pre-schools, daycare centers, homes for children, homes for eldersand Dhamma schools;

(d)to commence and conduct various projects for thewelfare of Sri Lankan Buddhist students who areunable to pursue their education either due topoverty or other disabilities;

(e)to conduct lectures, seminars, discussions,workshops, educational trips, exhibitions and printpublications for the Maha Sangha, Dasa Sil Mathasand the young and elderly Buddhist people with aview to promoting education;

(f)to provide relief services such as assistance andhousing, for the benefit of the poor, elderly anddestitute people with physical and mentaldisabilities and the helpless, who are adherents ofthe Buddhist faith ;

Objects of theCorporation.

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 20143

(g)to implement programmes in relation to childhealth, adult health, disease control, conductmedical clinics, physical training and sports centresand provide medical aid in order to ensure thewelfare of the Buddhists ;

(h)to commence and conduct programmes to preservetraditional heritage of Sri Lanka such as culture,literature, arts and crafts, indigenous medicine andenvironment conservation ; and

(i)to collaborate with any other institution, whetherforeign or local having objects similar to those ofthe Corporation.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion,place of birth or any of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict berween thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Working Council(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Council of the Foundation holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Council of the Corporationuntil the first Council is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 2014

(b) The first Council of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after thelapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate lands orbuildings which may by required for the purposesof the Corporation and to deal with or dispose ofthe same as may be deemed expedient with a viewto promoting the objects of the Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind :

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 20145

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank ;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the Corporation, in suchmanner as the Council may determine ;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation ;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corportion andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation ;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation ;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the Corporation ;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

6Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 2014

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members ;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the Corporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its’ objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

Rules of theCorporation.

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 20147

(3) The member of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Government Gazette.

8.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Council to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualiafied auditorappointed by Auditor General, in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

Register ofMembers.

8Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 2014

or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anaccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No.31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the yearsucceeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted, and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition

Annual Report.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 20149

or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of theCorporation.

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Council who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Council as may be decided by suchCouncil.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by therules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Seal of theCorporation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

10Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 2014

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of 201411

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.