PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 21, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 17th August, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

REV. MOONAMALE DHAMMARATHANAMEMORIAL FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 43 OF 2009

Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20091

Short title.

2 —PL 003908 —3,240 (06/2009)

Preamble.

[Certified on 17th August, 2009]

L. D. —O. Inc. 19/2007

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE REV. MOONAMALEDHAMMARATHANA MEMORIAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Rev.Moonamale Dhammarathana Memorial Foundation” hasheretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out it’s objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Rev. MoonamaleDhammarathana Memorial Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 43 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “Rev.Moonamale Dhammarathana Memorial Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted members of the Corporation hereby constitutedshall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporationof the Rev.MoonamaleDhammarathanaMemorialFoundation.

2Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to construct a Statue to commemorate VenerableMoonamale Dhammarathana Thero, the late ChiefIncumbent of Sri Punyawardanaramaya ofYatigaloluwa, Pannala, to organize religious andother ceremonies to commemorate his name, and toorganize activities to enlighten the general publicabout the life of the Venerable MoonamaleDhammarathana Thero;

(b)with a view to assisting adherents of the Buddhistfaith to implement programmes in respect of pre-schools, day care centres, children’s homes, childeducation and religious education;

(c)to assist in enhancing the welfare and benefits ofSri Lankan Buddhist students who are unable topursue their education due to poverty and otherdisabilities;

(d)to conduct necessary classes, lectures, libraries,seminars, conferences, workshops, discussions,dialogues, educational tours, exhibitions, displays,and publish newspapers and magazines with a viewto ensuring the development of education ofBuddhist youth;

(e)to provide relief services such as assistance andhousing for the benefit of poor, elderly, destitutewith physical and mental disabilities and thehelpless, who are adherents of the Buddhist faith;

(f)to inaugurate language training and vocationaltraining courses in order to deploy Buddhist youthin productive services and to provide facilities toengage in income generating activities by way offurther assistance;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20093

(g)to implement programmes in relation to child healthand adult health, and to provide education ondisease control and to conduct clinics, gymnasiumsand medical clinics, with a view to ensuring thewelfare of adherents of the Buddhist faith;

(h)to provide self-help and voluntary services for socialdevelopment activities among the low-incomeearning groups who are adherents of the Buddhistfaith and to inaugurate and maintain pilot projectsin this regard;

(i)to engage in any industry or trade or any export orimport business and to aid or assist adherents of theBuddhist faith to commence and operate agricultural,industrial and commercial ventures and to undertaketraining programmes and extension services and toorganize propaganda activities relating to thetransfer of technology;

(j)to construct and maintain buildings required for theSri Punnyawardhanaramaya, Pannala, Yatigaloluwa;

(k)to promote the religious education of the Buddhistlaity;

(l)to provide the resident bhikkus of the SriPunnyawardhanaramaya, Pannala, Yatigaloluwawith educational facilities and to help them in theirdaily needs;

(m)to promote cultural activities including ancient formsof art in the village and the area in and around theSri Punnyawardhanaramaya, Pannala, Yatigaloluwa;

(n)to engage in the dissemination of the Dhammainternationally;

(o)to preserve and disseminate the Buddhist Philosophyand the Buddhist way of life;

4Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2009

(p) to establish friendly relations with other Buddhistorganizations in Sri Lanka and abroad; and

(q) to promote Buddhist education by grantingscholarships to adherents of the Buddhist faith andto establish and maintain pirivenas for Buddhisteducation.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referredto as the “Board”) consisting of the President, Vice Presidentsand other office bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of the Boardof the Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgagepledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovalbe propertyfor the pruposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authoirized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20095

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objcets of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two - thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law on all or any of thefollowing matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers and duties;

(c)the election of members of the Board and its powers,conduct and duties;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed or the summoning andholding of meetings of the Board, the time, places,notices and agenda of such meetings and the quorumtherefore and the conduct of business thereat; and;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

Rules of theCorporation.

6Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2009

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.The Board shall cause to be maintained a register ofevery person who had been a member on the date ofcommencement of this Act, and every person who shallhereafter be admitted, members of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or moreBanks as may be determined by the Board.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Board.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i) an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20097

(ii) a firm of accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued by such Institute.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretary of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board who shall sign their name on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

12The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividends,bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of, the same.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

8Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2009

14.If upon the dssolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and whichis, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or profit among its or their members. Such associationor associations shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhalatext toprevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Rev. Moonamale Dhammarathana MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 20099

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWETHA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.