PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FOUZ TRUST (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 32 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 10th August, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 10, 2007

Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 20071

Short title.

2 —PL 001965 — 3,300 (04/2007)

[Certified on 10th August, 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 8/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FOUZ TRUST

WHEREAS a Trust Called and known as the “Fouz Trust”has heretofore been created for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Trust :

AND WHEREAS the Trustees of the said Trust has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which the said Trust was created, and hasapplied to be incorporated and it will be for the publicadvantage to grant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Boardof Trustees of the Fouz Trust (hereinafter referred to asthe“Trust”) and hereafter be admitted as members of the saidTrust shall be a body Corporate with perpetual successionunder the name and style of “Fouz Trust” (hereinafter referredto as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and besued with full power and authority to have and to use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Trust is created arehereby declared to be —

(a)to improve the standard of education of the MuslimStudents and to develop the less resourceful Tamilmedium schools in Southern Province;

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe Fouz Trust.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 2007

(b)to provide educational materials in SinhalaLanguage to Muslim Students studying in SinhalaMedium ;

(c)to create employment opportunities for the Muslimunemployed youths in the Southern Province andto provide them with financial assistance and guidefor self employment ;

(d)to advocate the abolition of the dowry system amongMuslims ;

(e)to grant financial assistance and award scholarshipsto youth for the purpose of pursuing highereducation ;

(f)to assist financialy, the needy muslim women intheir Nikkah ceremony ; and

(g)to introduce a housing scheme for the homelessMuslims.

4.The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act and any other written law, have the power—

(a)to appoint, remunerate, dismiss and exercisedisciplinary control over the officers and servantsas may be necessary for the purposes of theCorporation ;

(b) to receive or collect any aid, grant or gift in cash orin kind from any person, or body of persons,corporate or otherwise for the carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation ;

(c)to establish branch organizations of the Corporationin foreign countries for the purpose of achieving allor any of the objects of the Corporation ;

(d)to borrow or raise money, for the furtherance of theobjects of the corporation, and to execute anymortgage or bond to secure the payment of themoney so borrowed or raised; and

Powers of theCorporation.

Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 20073

(e)to enter into or perform, either directly or throughits officers or servants or agents authorized in thatbehalf of the Corporation, all such contracts andagreements as may be necessary for carrying out ofthe objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall be subject tothe provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, beadministered by the president and number of members electedin accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1) of this section, Mr. M. L. Fouz, the founder President ofthe Trust shall be the first Trustee-President of theCorporation.

6.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold property both movable and immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation, shallhave full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of membersfrom their membership;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, their term of officeand their powers and duties;

(c)the procedure to be followed in the transaction ofbusiness at meetings of the Corporation;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold Propertymovable andimmovable.

Rules of theCorporation.

4Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 2007

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(e)generally, for management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner asa rule made under subsection (1).

(3)The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

8.The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of —

(a)all sums of money lying to the credit of the trust onthe day immediately preceding the commencementof this Act ; and

(b)all sums of money that may accrue to theCorporation after the commencement of this Act.

9.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2)The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by qualified auditors appointed by the Corporation.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debtsdue to, and subscriptions and contributions payable, to theTrust on such date shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall be kept in thecustody of the President of the Corporation and shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsover, except in the presenceof such number of persons as may be provided for in the rules

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

Debts due byand payable tothe Trust.

The seal of theCorporation.

Fouz Trust (Incorporation)Act, No. 32 of 20075

of the Corporation, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any such person as a witness.

12.Where upon dissolution of the Corporation thereremains any property after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferredto some other institution or institutions having objects similarto those of the Corporation and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such institution or institutions shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other persons.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of theRights of theRepublic andOthers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.