==== BLOCKS ==== 

01Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 2025

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA______________________________________________________________________________

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS TRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

(AMENDMENT) (AMENDMENT) ACT, ACT, No.No. 26 OF 2025 26 OF 2025

[Certified on 17th of December, 2025]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri LankaSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 26, 2025

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 202502

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 2025

[ Certified on 17th of December, 2025 ]

L.D.-O 38/2025

An Act to amend the Strategic Development Projects

Act, No. 14 of 2008

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:- 1. This Act may be cited as the Strategic Development Projects (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2025. 2. Section 2 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”), as last amended by Act, No. 12 of 2011, is hereby further amended in proviso thereof, by the substitution for the words “twenty-five years.”, of the words “ten years.”.

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

3. (1) The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall, subject to the criteria as may be prescribed, identify any proposed project as a Strategic Development Project.

(2) Upon being identified the proposed project as a Strategic Development Project, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall refer such project proposal to the Ministry of Finance for ex-ante cost-benefit analysis.

(3) The Ministry of Finance shall, with the technical input from the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, carry out such ex-ante cost-benefit analysis of the project and submit a recommendation to the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka within one month from the date of such reference under subsection (2).

Short title

Replacementof section 3 of the principal enactment

Amendment of section 2 of Act, No.14 of 2008

PL 15527 - 868 (11/2025)

“Identification of Strategic Development Project

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 20252

(4) The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall, upon being satisfied that such a project meets the eligibility criteria as prescribed under subsection (1) and having regard to the recommendation made under subsection (3), grant such number of years of tax holiday and any exemption or concession as may be prescribed.

(5) Upon the identification of a project as a Strategic Development Project under this section, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall communicate such decision to the Minister.

(6) The Minister shall, with the concurrence of the Cabinet of Ministers, publish an Order in the Gazette, specifying –

(a) the name and nature of the Strategic

Development Project;

(b) the date on which the exemptions

from the enactments specified in the Schedule hereto, granted in terms of section 2, shall become operative in respect of that project; and

(c) any other necessary information as

he deems appropriate.

(7) Such Order made under subsection (6), shall be placed before Parliament for information.”.

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following sections are substituted therefor: -

Replacement of section4 of theprincipalenactment

3Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 2025

4. (1) The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall, from time to time as it deems appropriate, carry out ex-post monitoring in respect of any Strategic Development Project and submit a report to the Ministry of Finance.

(2) The Ministry of Finance shall disclose the project outcomes and fiscal impacts of the project to the public by publication of the report submitted under subsection (1) on its official website.

(3) Where any Strategic Development Project fails to comply with the approved key performance indicators, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall issue a notice of non-compliance to the Strategic Development Project Entity, which shall include—

(a) the nature of the non-compliance;

and

(b) a specified period of time for

corrective action.

(4) Where any Strategic Development Project fails to take corrective action within the period of time specified by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka may, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, and having regard to the nature and gravity of the non-compliance, take one or more of the following actions:-

(a) restrict, suspend or revoke any

or all exemptions, concessions or tax holiday granted under this Act in respect of the Strategic Development Project; or

"Ex-post

monitoring of Strategic Development Project

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 20254

(b) impose administrative penalties to

recover the loss incurred in that connection.

4A. (1) The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall, before taking action specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (4) of section 4, issue a notice in writing to the Strategic Development Project Entity, specifying the grounds for the action.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) shall require the Strategic Development Project Entity to show cause within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the notice, as to why the sanctions specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (4) of section 4 shall not be imposed.

(3) The Strategic Development Project Entity shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard, either in person or through an authorised representative, before a final decision is made.

(4) Upon the consideration of any representations made by the Strategic Development Project Entity or its representative, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, restrict, suspend, or revoke any or all exemptions, concessions or tax holiday granted under this Act in respect of the Strategic Development Project or impose administrative penalties to recover the loss incurred in that connection.

4B. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2 –

(a) every Strategic Development Project Entity shall file tax returns

Notice toshow cause

Liability to pay the tax

5Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 2025

in terms of the provisions of Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

(b) every Strategic Development Project Entity shall be liable to pay income tax with respect to withholding payments; and

(c) every employment income of resident and non-resident employee from any Strategic Development Project Entity shall be liable to pay income tax.

4C. (1) The tax holiday period applicable to a Strategic Development Project shall commence on the date of commencement of commercial operations of such project, as certified by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka.

(2) The tax holiday period granted to a Strategic Development Project under this Act shall not be extended under any circumstances.

4D. The Ministry of Finance shall, in respect of each financial year, publish on its official website an annual report on tax expenditures relating to all Strategic Development Projects under this Act.

4E. The Ministry of Finance may, in consultation with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, review the continued relevance and efficiency of the exemptions, concessions or tax holiday granted under this Act, upon the expiry of five years from the date of commencement of this section.

Review

Commencementof the taxholiday period

Annual report of taxexpendituresfor the Strategic Development Project

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 20256

4F. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of matters for which regulations are authorized or required to be made or to be prescribed by this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall within a period of three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

(4) A Notification of the date of disapproval shall be published in the Gazette.

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –

“Board of Investment of Sri Lanka”

means, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, established under the provisions of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;

“Minister” means, the Minister assigned

the subject of Investment under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution; and

“Interpretation

Replacement of section 6 of the principal enactment

Regulations

7Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 2025

“Strategic Development Project Entity”

means an enterprise with which the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka has entered into an agreement under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 and identified as a Strategic Development Project, under Section 3 of this Act.”.

6. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that any tax holiday, exemptions and concessions or other benefit lawfully granted to a Strategic Development Project prior to the coming into operation of this Amendment Act shall, subject to compliance with the terms and conditions attached thereto, continue to be valid for the duration specified therein.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency

Avoidance of doubt.

Strategic Development Projects (Amendment)

Act, No. 26 of 20258

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “Prakashana Piyasa”, Department of Government printinG, no. 118, Dr. Danister De silva mawatha, Colombo 8.