PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 2010

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

PULATHISI DARUWO FOUNDATIONTRUST (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 6 OF 2010

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20101

Short title.

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 5/2008

AN ACT TO iNCORPORATE THE PULATHISI DARUWO FOUNDATION TRUST

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “PulathisiDaruwo Foundation Trust” has been established inPolonnaruwa for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Fundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Pulathisi DaruwoFoundation Trust (Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of the“Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust” (hereinafter referred toas the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hererby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”),with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust” and by that name maysue, and be sued, with full power and authority to have anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to organize, conduct and develop the educationalactivities and pre-training activities for the poorchildren and youth ;

Incorporationof PulathisiDaruwoFoundationTrust.

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010

(b)to promote skills of youths ;

(c)to encourage the farmers and to establish youngFarmers Organizations ;

(d)to grant opportunities for training for youth in pre-vocational education, sports activities, leadership,computer, media and Tamil, English and otherlanguages ;

(e)to train persons engaged in activities in furtheranceof national unity by conducting seminars,discussions and workshops ;

(f)to commemorate and honour outstanding personswho have contributed towards national unity, bygrant of awards, prizes, scholarships andfellowships ;

(g)to establish libraries, archives and centres to preserveand to protect the cultural heritage of allcommunities in Sri Lanka ;

(h)to promote welfare activities for the benefit ofchildren, women and orphans;

(i)to provide assistance by way of scholarships, loansadvances and grants to deserving students to pursuestudies and research in Sri Lanka and abroad;

(j)to establish and maintain Institutions for the welfareand rehabilitation of the destitute, the disable, theaged, the sick and displaced Persons ;

(k)to promote mutual understanding and co-operationamong people irrespective of race and religion ; and

(l)to establish and maintain projects for the protection,management and conservation of the environment ;

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20103

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to —

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of, any immovable propertyfor the purpose of the Corporation ;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation ;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind ;

(d)invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and tomaintain current deposits and savings accounts inany bank ;

(e)publish or cause to be published books, journals,magazines and other literature and establish andmaintain libraries, bookshops and printing presses;

(f)advance or lend and to borrow money for thepurposes of the Corporation in such manner andupon such security as the Corporation may thinkfit; and

(g)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation and to prescribe their terms andconditions of services.

Powers of theCorporation.

4Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation, made under section 6 beadministered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referredto as “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,Hon. Secretary, Hon. Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer andnine other members elected in accordance with such rules ofthe Corporation.

(2) The first Board of Control of the Corporation shall bethe Board of Control of the Foundation, holding office onthe day immediately proceeding the date of commencementof this Act.

(3) Mr. Maithripala Sirisena shall, until a Chairman iselected in terms of this Act, be the Chairman of the first Boardof Management of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at an Annual General Meeting or at any Special GeneralMeeting of the Corporation convened for that purpose withintwo weeks notice and by a majority of not less than twothirds of the members present and voting to make rules notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw, for the admission, withdrawal and expulsion of membersof the Corporation, the powers, conduct and duties of theoffice bearers, the procedure to be observed in the transactionof business at the meeting of the Corporation, the conduct,duties and functions of the officers and employees of theCorporation and otherwise generally for the management ofthe affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of itsobjects. Such rules when made may, at a like meeting and inlike manner be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20105

to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundationon the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) all such sums of money as may be received by theCorporation in the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act; and

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by theCorporation, by way of loans, donations, gifts orgrants from any source, whether in Sri Lanka orabroad.

9.(a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year ;

(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets andliabilities and all other transactions of theCorporation;

(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor ,

(d) in this section, “Qualified Auditor” means—

(i) an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of SriLanka, or of any other Institute establishedby law, possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

Audit andAccounts.

Funds of theCorporation.

6Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010

(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence ofPresident and the Secretary or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board of Management who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

11.No person shall be liable in any suit or other legalproceeding for any act done, or purporting to be done ingood faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or underthis Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions ofthis Act.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Associaiton orAssociaitons having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules made undersection 6 prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its or their members of the Corporation at, ormmediately before, the time of the dissolution of theCorporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or anybody or politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Indemnity foracts done ingood faith.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution.

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 20107

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.