PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THE WORLD FELLOWSHIP OF BUDDHISTSSRI LANKA CENTRE (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 1 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd January, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 23, 2009

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 20091

2—PL 003183—3,250 (08/2008)

[Certified on 22nd January, 2009]

L.D.—O. I.N.C. 4/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE WORLD FELLOWSHIP OF BUDDHISTSSRI LANKA CENTRE.

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “WorldFellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Regional Centre ” hasheretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the World Fellowship ofBuddhists Sri Lanka Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 1of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theWorld Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Regional Centre(hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) and such otherpersons shall hereafter be admitted as members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Centre”,(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that namemay sue and be sued, in all courts, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Short Title

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe worldfellowship ofBuddhistsSri LankaCentre.

2The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to represent Sri Lanka within the World Fellowshipof Buddhists;

(b)to encourage the membership to abide by Buddhistprinciples;

(c)to develop unity among Buddhists within the regionand world over;

(d)to promote the Buddha Sasana among the Buddhistsin the region as well as in other parts of the world;

(e)to encourage and assist Buddhists particularlyBuddhist women to organize themselves to furtherthe Buddhist philosophy and Buddhist culture;

(f)to undertake research activities on Buddhism andthe publication of appropriate texts relating toBuddhism;

(g)to provide appropriate facilities for the advancementof religious education of Buddhist Monks;

(h)to organize and implement social, cultural,educational and rehabilitation programmes forpersons of the Buddhist faith;

(i)to promote peace, unity and friendship amongpersons of the Buddhist faith;

(j)to implement programmes of the World Fellowshipof Buddhists for the benefit of persons of theBuddhist faith;

(k)to organize and conduct lectures, seminars,workshops, exhibitions and other appropriateprogrammes and activities for persons of theBuddhist faith in order to promote the objects ofthe Corporation;

General objectsof theCorporation.

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 20093

(l)to provide necessary assistance and facilities toBuddhist visitors to Sri Lanka particularly therepresentatives of the Centres of the WorldFellowship of Buddhist; and

(m)to liaise with other institutions and organizationshaving objects similar to those of the Corporaion.

4.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Actbe administered by an Executive Committee (hereinafterrefferd to as the “Executive Committee”) consisting of officebearers and such number of Committee members elected inthe manner as may be provided by the rules of the Corporationmade under section 6.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Executive Committee ofthe Centre who hold office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects ofthe Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

4The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Executive Committee may determine;

(e)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(f)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes fo the Corporation; and

(g)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the ExecutiveCommittee or vacation of or removal from officeand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the appointment, powers, functions and duties andthe terms and conditions of the various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be followed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Executive Committee,the Corporation or any sub-committee thereof,

Rules of theCorporation.

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 20095

filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications for membersof the Executive Committee and the Corporation;and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation for the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and onaccount of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or morebanks approved by the Executive Committee to the credit ofthe Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

6The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by the ExecutiveCommittee.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, who possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, who possesses a certificate topractice as an Accountant, issued by the Council ofsuch Institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constitutedand all debts due to and subscriptions and contributionspayable to the centre on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.No member of the Corporation shall, for thepurpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of theCorporation, or for any other purpose, be liable to makeany contribution exceeding the amount of suchmembership fees as may be due from time to time to theCorporation.

11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, and whichis or are by the rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its or their members.

Debts due byand payable tothe Centre.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 20097

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Executive Committee of the Corporationand who shall sign their names to the instrument in token oftheir presence and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

13Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Seal of theCorporation.

8The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri LankaCentre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.