PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

WAGES BOARDS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 14 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th of September, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 27, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2019

Short title.

[Certified on 24th of September, 2019]

L.D.—O. 55/2009

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WAGES BOARDS ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Wages Boards(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2019.

2.Section 4 of the Wages Boards Ordinance(Chapter 136) (hereinafter referred to as the “principalenactment”) is hereby amended as follows:—

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:—

“(1) Every employer who fails to comply withany provisions of this section of this Part shall beguilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine notless than five thousand rupees and not exceedingten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment.”;

(2)in subsection (2A) of that section—

(a)in paragraph (d) of that section by thesubstitution for the words “of such sum.”of the words “of such sum;”;

(b)by the addition immediately afterparagraph (d) of that section of thefollowing new paragraph:—

“(e)where such sum is in arrears for aperiod exceeding twenty four

Amendment ofsection 4 ofChapter 136.

Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20192

months a surcharge of ten percentum thereafter for each periodof twelve months.”.

3.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution forthe words “four years commencing” of the words “six yearscommencing”.

4.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) of thatsection and the substitution therefor of the following:—

“(1) Every employer who fails to pay wages to anyworker in accordance with the provisions of section 21,shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a finenot less than five thousand rupees and not exceedingten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription of a term not exceeding one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment, and shall in addition, beliable to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees foreach day on which the offence is continued afterconviction.

(2) Every employer, other than an employer referredto in subsection (1), who fails to make to any worker,any payment in accordance with any provision of thisPart of this Ordinance or of any decision of a WagesBoard, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable toa fine not less than five thousand rupees and notexceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment, and to a fine notexceeding five hundred rupees for each day on whichthe offence is continued after conviction.”.

5.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subseciton (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words “during the four years”, of the words “duringthe six years”.

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment.

3Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2019

6.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subseciton (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words “to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees”,of the words “to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees”.

7.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subseciton (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words “not exceeding two hundred rupees” and thewords “not exceeding three months”, of the words “not lessthan five thousand rupees” and the words “not exceedingtwelve months” respectively.

8.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words “not exceedingtwo hundred rupees” and the words “not exceeding threemonths” of the words “not less than five thousand rupees”and the words “not exceeding twelve months” respectively.

9.Section 56 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (c) of that section by the substitutionfor the words “within four years” of the words “within sixyears”.

10.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the succeeding paragraph to paragraph (g) ofthat section by the substitution for the words “not exceedingone thousand rupees” and the words “not exceeding sixmonths” of the words “not less than twenty thousand rupees”and the words “not exceeding twelve months” respectively.

11.Section 59A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:—

59A. (1) Where any person enters into acontract or work arrangement expressed orimplied, for trade or commercial purposes, withany other person who employs workers toperform work on a regular basis which is anintegral part of the business activities of thefirst-mentioned person, and such personemploys workers pursuant to the said contractor work arrangement, such contract or workarrangement shall be deemed to amount to adisguised employment relationship.

Amendment ofsection 51 ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 59A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 50 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 48 ofthe principalenactment.

“Specialprovisionsapplicablewherepersons areemployed todo workunder anyarrangementmade by wayof trade oranycommercialpurpose.

Amendment ofsection 58 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 56 ofthe principalenactment.

Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20194

(2) Where the Commissioner is of opinion,after due inquiries, that such contract or workarrangement is in fact a disguised employmentrelationship, he shall in writing direct the first-mentioned person referred to in subsection (1)to refrain from having such work executedunder such contract or arrangement in respectof such workers.

(3) A person who has been aggrieved by adirective made in respect of him undersubsection (2) shall have a right to appeal tothe Special Employment Relations Tribunalestablished under section 59B of this Act withinthirty days of the making of such directive.The Special Employment Relations Tribunalshall thereafter summon all parties concernedand make a determination affirming or rejectingthe directive of the Commissioner.”.

12.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 59A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 59B, 59C, and 59D of thatenactment:—

59B. (1) There shall be established a SpecialEmployment Relations Tribunal (hereinafterreferred to as the “Tribunal”) for thedetermination of appeals made to the Tribunalby any aggrieved person in terms of subsection(3) of section 59A.

(2) The Tribunal shall consist of threemembers to be appointed by the Minister. Thethree members shall be persons who have awide knowledge and experience in the field oflabour laws and one of whom shall be a retiredJudge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appealof Sri Lanka who shall be the Chairman of theTribunal.

Insertion ofsections 59B,59C, and 59D inthe principalenactment.

“Establishmentof a SpecialEmploymentRelationsTribunal.

5Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2019

(3) A member of the Tribunal shall holdoffice for a period of three years and shall beeligible for reappointment.

(4) Any member may at any time resign hisoffice by a letter to that effect addressed to theMinister and such resignation shall take effectupon it being accepted by the Minister.

(5) Where any member vacates office byresignation, removal, death or of his inabilityto hold office on account of ill health or absencefrom Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Ministermay appoint another person in his place interms of subsection (2) and the person soappointed may hold office for the unexpiredperiod of term of office of the member whomhe succeeds.

(6) The Minister may remove any memberof the Tribunal for reasons assigned.

(7) There shall be a Secretary to the Tribunalappointed by the Commissioner who shallmaintain records of the Tribunal and attend toany such other work assigned to him by theTribunal and the Commissioner relating tofunctions of the Tribunal.

(8) The Commissioner may appoint suchofficers and servants as are necessary tofacilitate the functions of the Tribunal.

(9) The members of the Tribunal may be paidsuch remuneration as the Minister maydetermine in consultation with the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.

Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20196

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Power andfunctions ofthe Tribunal.

59C. (1) The Tribunal shall hear anddetermine the appeals made to it undersubsection (3) of section 59A in accordancewith the principles of natural justice. On makinga decision, the Chairman shall fourthwithinform the Commissioner and the parties ofthe decision.

(2) The Commissioner shall upon receipt ofthe decision of the Tribunal, cause the same tobe published in the Gazette.

(3) The decision shall be effective asbetween the parties with effect from the date ofpublication in the Gazette or from such date asmay be specified therein.

59D. Any person who fails to comply withany directive of the Commissioner undersection 59A, or does any act in violation of thedecision of the Tribunal under section 59C shallbe guilty of an offence and the Commissioneror any person duly authorized by him inwriting may institute action in the appropriateMagistrate’s Court against such person.”.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Power ofCommissionerto instituteaction.

7Wages Boards (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.