PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION OFPROFESSIONAL SOCIAL WORKERS(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 46 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00Postage : Rs. 50.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 28, 2014

1Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2014

2—PL 006402—2,000 (10/2014)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 34/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION OFPROFESSIONAL SOCIAL WORKERS

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Sri Lanka Association of Professional Social Workers” hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out its objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Associationof Professional Social Workers (Incorporation) Act,No. 46 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the SriLanka Association of Professional Social Workers (hereinafterreferred to as the “Association”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Sri Lanka Association of Professional SocialWorkers” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), andby that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning, and for the

Incorporation ofthe Sri LankaAssociation ofProfessionalSocial Workers.

Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20142

purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Coporation.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to enhance and develop the concecpt of professionalsocial work;

(b)to create a link among person engaged in socialwork; and

(c)to provide training on the conduct of the differentcategories of social work to the persons are engagedin carrying out social work.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, languge, caste, sex, political opinon,place of birth or any of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Committee ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”)consisting of such number of office bearers as may bespecified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a)The Committee of Management of theAssociation that holds office on the day immediately

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2014

preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallfunction as the Committee of the Corporation until the firstCommittee is appointed or elected in the manner providedfor by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee includingthe patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherence of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower:—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovateand otherwise obtain lands or buildings whichmay be required for the purposes of the Corporationand to deal with or dispose of the same as maybe deemed expedient with a view to promoting theobjects of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or withoutsecurities and to receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind:

Powers of theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20144

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation.

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain, and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Committee may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation; and

(g)to do all other things as are necessary for expedeintfor the proper and effective carring out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

Rules of theCorporation.

5Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2014

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, andservants of the Corporation;

(d)The procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee or anysub- Committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

Register of themembers.

Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20146

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andauditing.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theCorporation in one or more banks approved by the Committee.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and libilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means–

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute establishment by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establisehd by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

7Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2014

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the Corporation for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsto the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Social Service and to the Registrar ofVoluntary Social Services Organizations appointed underthe Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the Corporation during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Association on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCorporation shall be able and capable in law to take andhold any property movable or immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation made undersection 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

Annual Report.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Corporationmay holdproperteymovable andimmovable.

Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 20148

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Committee who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of anoffice bearer of the Committee as may be decided by suchCommittee.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution ata general meeting by the majority of votes of themembers present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudiceor affect the rights of the Republic or any body politicor corporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

9Sri Lanka Association of ProfessionalSocial Workers (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.