PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 11, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 08th May, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

RAMBUKWELLA SRI VIPASSIDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 18 OF 2007

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20071

L. D. — O. (Inc.) 15/2004

[Certified on 08th May, 2007]

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RAMBUKWELLA SRI VIPASSI FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an association called and known as the“Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation” has beenformed in Kandy, for the purpose of effectually fulfilling andcarrying out all objects and matters connected with the saidassociation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Rambukwella Sri VipassiDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theRambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) and such other persons asshall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Rambukwella SriVipassi Development Foundation” (hereinafter referred to asthe “Corporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued inall courts, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to provide for the upliftment of the academic andreligious education of poor Buddhist children andto improve their different skills ;

Incorporation oftheRambukwellaSri VipassiDevelopmentFoundation.

Short title.

2—PL 001675— 3,350 (12 /2006)

Preamble.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20072

(b)to render assistance to Buddhists in awardingscholarships, maintaining dhamma schools,maintaining libraries, centres for Buddhistinformation and research and maintaining electroniccentres ;

(c)to provide economic relief needed to raise the livingstandards of the Buddhists through the developmentof their physical and mental well being ;

(d)to provide relief services for the destitute and tomaintain elders homes and rest rooms ;

(e)to initiate projects in order to create jobopportunities for the Buddhists who are unemployedand to provide aid, facilities and other loan facilitiesfor that purpose ;

(f)to organize vocational training courses and todevelop skills in order to facilitate securing ofemployment ;

(g)to render assistance to industries and to maintain apilgrims rest for the convenience of Buddhistpilgrims who travel through the area to visit placesof traditional religious workshop ; and

(h)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects referredto in the above paragraphs.

4.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe Corporation shall subject to the other provisions of thisAct and the rules mads under section, 5 of the Corporation,vest in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “theCouncil”) consisting of the office bearers and such otherpersons as may be provided for in such rules and elected inaccordance herewith.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20073

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1), Venerable Rambukwella Vipassi Thero, the founderPresident of the Foundation, shall be the first Chairman ofthe Corporation.

(3) Where the post of Chairman becomes vacant afterVenerable Rambukwella Vipassi Thero, the second memberof the Membership Board would assume the post of Chairman,and the next chief pupil of the Rambukwella Bhikkhugeneration, would become the second member of theMembership Board.

(4) A Bhikkhu Member who disrobes would losemembership, and such membership would pass on to the nextpupil of the Rambukwella Bhikkhu generation.

5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any meeting of the Corporation and by a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present and voting tomake rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law, for the following matters :–

(a)the admission and classification of membership andthe withdrawal and expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of office bearers, the resignation from,or vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers, functions, duties ; and

(c)the election of the members of the Council and itspowers, functions, duties and the terms of office ofthe members of the Council ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Council, the times, places,notices, quorum and agenda of such meetings andthe conduct of business thereat ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20074

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner, as a rule madeat like meeting under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and thefinancial year shall be from 1st January to 31st December ofthe same year.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation, shall be deposited in a bank approved bythe Council to the credit of the Corporation and where theCouncil so determines, the money may also be deposited in asavings or in a current account.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debts dueto, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundationon that date shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposeof this Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor who shall be a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit ofAccounts.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20075

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actwith full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of them.

10.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any otherpersons.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 20076

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA AVENUE, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.