PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 09, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 09th February, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SAMASTHA LANKA INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 5 OF 2007

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20071

Preamble.

Incorporationof theSamasthaLankaInternationalDevelopmentAssociation.

[Certified on 09th February, 2007]

L. D. — O. (Inc) 22/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMASTHA LANKA INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Samastha Lanka International Development Association”has heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purposeof effectually carrying out and transacting all objects andmatters connected with the said Association according to therules agreed by to its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1This Act may be cited as the Samastha LankaInternational Development Association (Incorporation) Act,No. 5 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the SamasthaLanka International Development Association (hereinafterreferred to as “the Association”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Samastha Lanka International Development Association”and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with fullpower and authority to have and to use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a) to encourage the social and economic developmentof Sri Lanka ;

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

Short title.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20072

(b) to establish, maintain and promote projects for thedevelopment of agriculture, livestock and fishingin urban and rural areas and in the plantation sector ;

(c) to train youth engaged in the plantation sector insmall industries to enable them to engage in selfemployment ;

(d) to promote education by holding seminars, lectures,discussions and workshops within or outside SriLanka ;

(e) to grant scholarships, fellowships, bursaries, prizesand other awards and to undertake research topromote education ;

(f) to provide board, accommodation and other facilitiesand grants to those who are engaged in theattainment of the objects of the Corporation ;

(g) to undertake the execution of road development andconstruction, improvement and maintaining anybuilding and machinery required therefore and toprovide such other related services ;

(h) to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,workshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lankaand elsewhere ; and

(i) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power —

(a) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of theCorporation ;

Powers of theCorporation.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20073

(b) to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy,sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissorynotes and other negotiable instruments and to open,operate, maintain and close bank accounts in SriLanka and elsewhere ;

(c) to enter into agreements or contracts with any personor body of persons in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka ;

(d) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administerany lawful trusts which may directly or indirectlybe conducive to the accomplishment of all or any ofthe objects of the Corporation ;

(e) to train personnel, in Sri Lanka or abroad, at theexpense of the Corporation for the purpose of theCorporation ;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances, pensions andgratuities as may be determined by the Corporation ;and

(g) to invest all moneys of the Corporation which arenot immediately required for the purpose of carryingout the objects of the Corporation in securities ofthe Government of Sri Lanka, or in any other formof investment in Sri Lanka.

5.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Actand the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,vest in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “theCouncil”), consisting of such number of members includingthe Chairman in accordance with the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation.

(2)The members of the Association holding office onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed to be the members of the first council of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20074

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at an annual general meeting or at any general meetingand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or other written law, for all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)classification of membership, fees payable by eachclass of members, their admission, expulsion orresignation ;

(b)election of the Council, resignation from, vacationof or removal from office as office bearers andpowers, duties, and conduct of the Council ;

(c)appointment, dismissal, powers, duties, functionsand conduct of the various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council, theCorporation or any Sub Committee thereof, fillingof vacancies, notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum therefor and the conduct of businessthereat.

(2)The rules made by the Corporation under subsection(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner as a rule made under subsection(1) from time to time, at any annual general meeting.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Council.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Funds of theCorporation.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20075

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in theexercise and discharge of the powers and functions of theCorporation shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,subscription, gift, grant or testamentary disposition orotherwise and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

9.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of annual subscription payable byhim to the Corporation.

10. All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Association on such day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.If upon the winding up or the dissolution of theCorporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debtsand liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shallnot be distributed among the members of the Corporation, butshall be given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions, having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers.

12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution of theCorporation.

Limitation ofLiability ofmembers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Auditingactivities.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20076

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe council of such institute ; or

(ii)a Firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman or the Managing Director or such other person asmay be duly authorized by the Council who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other persons .

15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Samastha Lanka International DevelopmentAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20077

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.