PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA SAMATA SETHA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 24 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th April, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08, 2011

1Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

2—PL 004996— 3,070 (07/2010)

Preamble.

Short title.

General objectsof theCorporation.

[Certified on 06th April, 2011]

L.D. — O. Inc. 17/2009.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA SAMATA SETHAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Samata SethaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation” (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate, (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)with perpetual succession under the name and style of “SriLanka Samata Setha Foundation” and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be :—

(a)to improve the economic standards of the poorfamilies living in the area and to alleviate povertyof such families by improving financial standards;

Incorporation ofthe Sri LankaSamata SethaFoundation.

2Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

(b)to collaborate with the Government activities toimprove and maintain higher standards of educationof poor families;

(c)to support the activities aimed at protection of theenvironment within the area ;

(d)to support the activities relating to nutritionalrehabilitation and to improve the nutritional levelof the poor and destitute within the area;

(e)to join in collaborative activities with otherorganizations, religious and cultural institutionswhich the Foundation deems necessary to corporatewith;

(f)to assist in the provision of books, instruments,clothing, loans and other financial assistance tochildren in lower income families who requireassistance;

(g)to establish a fund and utilize same in order toachieve the above mentioned objectives.

(2) In the implementation of the above objectives theCorporation shall ensure that such implementation is carriedout without any distinction based on race, caste, religion,language, sex or political opinion.

(3) For the purposes of this section, “area ” means thegeographical area within which the office of the Sri LankaSamata Setha Foundaion is established.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to:—

(a) acquire, hold or take any immovable property forthe Corporation or give on lease, hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property ofthe Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

3Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

(b) enter into, perform or carry out whether directly orthrough any officer or agent authorized in that behalfby the Corporation, all such contracts or agreementsas may be necessary for the attainment of the objectsor the exercise of the Corporation;

(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d) advance or lend and to borrow money for thepurposes of the Corporation in such a mannerand upon such security as the Corporation maythink fit;

(e) invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and tomaintain current, and savings accounts in any bank;

(f) publish or cause to be published books, journals,magazines and other literature and establishand maintain libraries, book shops and prinitingpresses;

(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over officers and servants required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation andto prescribe their terms and conditions of serviceand dismiss such officer; and

(h) generally do all such other acts and things as arenecessary for and incidental or conducive to thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The manegement of the affairs of the Corporationshall, subject to the rules of the Corporation, made undersection 6 of this Act be administered by a Board ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”)consisting of office-bearers and such number of members asmay be provided for in such rules and elected in accordancetherewith.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall be the Boardof Management of the Foundation holding office on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-third of the members present and voting to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of or removal from, office of, officebearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Board and itspowers, conduct and duties and the terms of officeof the members of the Board and the filling ofvacancies of the members of the Board;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers,agents and servants of theCorporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board, the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefore and the conduct of businessthereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule madeunder subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

5Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 6.

7.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman and either the Secretary or the Treasurer who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donations, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powes, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified Auditor.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

6Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

(4) In this section “qualified Auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by suchinstitutes.

11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Such Instituteor Institutes shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the dissolution of theCorporation.

12.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

7Sri Lanka Samata Setha Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.