PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

YOUNG MEN’S BUDDHIST ASSOCIATION,KOLONNAWA (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 25 OF 2009

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 20091

Short title.

2 —PL 003015 —3,200 (06/2008)

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

L. D. —O. Inc. 16/2006.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE YOUNG MEN’S BUDDHIST ASSOCIATION,KOLONNAWA

WHEREAS an association called and known as the “YoungMen’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa”, has heretoforebeen formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidAssociation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it is for the public advantage to grant suchapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Young Men’s BuddhistAssociation, Kolonnawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the YoungMen’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa (hereinafter referredto as the “Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession under the name and styleof “The Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana, withoutprejudice to the observance and practice of otherreligions ;

Incorporationof the YoungMen’sBuddhistAssociation,Kolonnawa.

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009

(b)to promote unity and co-operation among Buddhistand to save the young generation from evilpractices.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perfom and execute all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, to open, operateand close bank accounts and subject to the rules of theCorporation made under section 6, to borrow or raise moneywith or without security, to receive or collect grants anddonations, to invest its funds, and to engage, employ anddismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out ofthe objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe other provisions of this Act and the rules of theCorporation made under section 6, be administered by aCommittee of Management consisting of the office bearersand such number of other members elected in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Committee of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the Executive Council of the Associationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act and who shall hold office until anew Committee of Management is elected in accordance withthe rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members, for the performance ofthe duties of the Committee of Management and of the officers,servants and agents of the Corporation, for the procedure tobe followed in the transaction of its business and generallyfor the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules.

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 20093

(2) Such rules may be altered, added to, amended orcancelled in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

7. (1) The Corporation shall have it’s own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, fees or grants for and onaccount of the Corporation, shall be deposited to the creditof the Corporation in one or more banks as the Board ofManagement shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Committee of Management of the Corporationshall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the incomeand expenditure, assets and liabilities and all othertransactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered

Accounts andAudit.

Fund of theCorporation.

4Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009

Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,subscriptions and contributions payable to the Associationon that date, shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property both movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by viture of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6 and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof such persons as may be determined by the Committee ofManagement of the Corporation and it shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two ofthe members of such Committee of Management, who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 20095

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.