INDUSTRIAL SECURITY FOUNDATION(SRI LANKA) (INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 51 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 14th December, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 17, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999

Short title.

Preamble.

H - 022545

[Certified on 14th December 1999]

L.D.– O. 15/97.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INDUSTRIAL SECURITYFOUNDATION (SRI LANKA).

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)” has heretoforebeen established for the purpose of effectually carrying outand transacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established, and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial SecurityFoundation (Sri Lanka) (Incorporation) Act, No.51 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) , or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)”, and by that namemay sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

3. The General objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be –

Incorporation ofthe IndustrialSecurityFoundation(Sri Lanka).

General objects ofthe Corporation.

2Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999

(a) to promote and encourage, the science andprofessional practice of providing security toindustrial establishments, and commercialestablishments:

(b) to promote and make more effective, the securitymeasures in industrial and commercialestablishments by providing for a closer liasionamong all the members of the profession:

(c) to affiliate and laise with other bodies, with similarobjects with a view to facilitating the exchange ofideas, knowledge and experience;

(d) to encourage and foster ethical and professionalstandards of work and conduct for members of theCorporation, and to take such steps as are necessaryto promote the same;

(e) to collect, collate, and distribute information andideas, on methods and techniques for the benefitand improvement of the security profession:

(f) to foster, promote, encourage and facilitate,discussion, study, and research on matters andproblems connected with the provision of security.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what soever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise monies, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General powers ofthe Corporation.

3Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999

Rules of theCorporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjects to therules of the Corporation for the time being in force, beadministered by an Executive Committee consisting of officebearers and such number of members as may be provided forin such rules and elected in accordance with such rules.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Executive Committee of theFoundation holding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawfull for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make such rules, as are not inconsistent withthe provisions of this Act or any other written law, for theadmission, withdrawal or expulsion of members, for the electionof office bearers and the executive committee and for theperformance of the duties of the Executive Committe and ofthe various officers, agents an servants of the Corporation,for the procedure to be followed in the transaction of businessat meetings of the Corporation and the Executive Committeeand otherwise generally, for the management of the affairs ofthe Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Such rules when made may, at a like meeting and in likemanner be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules ofthe Corporation made under this section.

7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999

property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, leaseexchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shallbe paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due, to and all subscriptions and contributionspayable to, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the persence of two membersof the Executive Committee who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets andliabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.

(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

In this section, “qualified auditor” mean’s –

(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practise as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute; or

Debts & c. ofthe Foundation.

Audit andaccounts.

Seal of theCorporation.

5Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999

(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, posseses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there remains,after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any propertywhatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferredto some other Association or Associations having objectssimilar to the objects of the Corporation, and which is or are,by the rules there of prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its or their members. Such Association orAssociations shall be determined by the memebers of theCorporation at, or immediately before, the time of thedissolution of the Corporation.

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate,or of any other persons, except such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by, from, or under them.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.