PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February12, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

MALIGAWATTA JANAZA AND WELFARESOCIETY (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 5 OF 2010

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20101

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MaligawattaJanaza andWelfare Society.

[Certified on 09th February 2010]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 12/2007

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MALIGAWATTA JANAZA ANDWELFARE SOCIETY

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Maligawatte Janaza and Welfare Society” has heretofore beenformed at Colombo for the purpose of effectually carrying outall objects and matters connected with the said associationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Maligawatta Janaza andWelfare Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theMaligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society (hereinafter referredto as the “Society”) and such other persons as shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “MaligawattaJanaza and Welfare Society” (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its will and pleasure..

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to provide financial assistance in the event of thedeath of a member to the beneficiaries nominated

General objectsof theCorporation.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20102

by such member for the purpose of meeting theJanaza expenses ;

(b)to promote thrift among the membership ;

(c)to make contributions for the welfare of the Muslimcommunity of Maligawatte ;

(d)to bury bodies of Muslims which remain unclaimedat Government hospitals ;

(e)to foster inter-communal amity ;

(f)to encourage the practical observance of Islamamong Muslims ;

(g)to organize programmes for the Muslim communityfocusing on education, social upliftment, co-operative enterprise, health and livelihoodprogrammes.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation :

(b)to borrow or raise money for the purpose of theCorporation ;

(c)to make, draw, accepts, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts ;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurpose of the Corporation, in such manner as theCommittee may think fit ;

General powersof theCorporation.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20103

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any personor body of persons ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratitutiesas may be determined by the Corporation ;

(h)to appoint sub-committees to carry out the objectsof the Corporation ; and

(i)to do all such other acts and things as are necessaryor expedient for the carrying out of the objects ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Actand rules of the Corporation made under section 7, be vestedin the Committee of Management (hereinafter referred to asthe “Committee”) consisting of a President, Vice President,General Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, AssistantTreasurer and five other Committee members as may beprovided for in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) In the event of any vacancy arising in the Committeedue to resignation, removal or death of any office bearer,such vacancy shall be filled according to the rules of theCorporation.

(3) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consistof the members of the Committee of the Society holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

6.(1) The Corporation shall have a Board of Trusteesconsisting of all the past Presidents, Secretaries and foundermembers who are presently engaged in the activities of theSociety.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Board ofTrustees.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20104

(2) The President, General Secretary and Treasurerappointed under section 5 shall be the ex-officio members ofthe Board of Trustees.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules which are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election, resignation, vacation or removal ofoffice bearers ;

(c)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of theoffice bearers, agents and officers and servants ofthe Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meeting of the Corporation and any subcommittee, the time, place, notice and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum therefor and the conductof business, thereat ;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of itsobjects.

(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended, altered,added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner asa rule made under subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20105

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,testamentary disposition, transfer, contribution, donations,subscription, fees or grants for and on account of theCorporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporationin one or more banks as the Committee shall determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund any expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be keptof its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and allother transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor who shall be an associate member of theChartered Institute of Sri Lanka and appointed by theCorporation for that purpose.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules made under section 7, shall have fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20106

11.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and alldebts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable tothe Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purpose of this Act.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among members of the Corporation, but shall begiven or transferred to some other association or associationshaving objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation andwhich is or are by the rules prohibited from the distributionof any income or profit among its or their members. Suchassociation or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

13.The moneys and property of the Corporation,howsoever derived, shall be applied solely, towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of divident or profits to the members of the Corporation.

14.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount payable as membership fees as maybe due from him to the Corporation.

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in thecustody of the Secretary and may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Committee

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Presidentand the General Secretary who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20107

16.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporation.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 20108

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWETHA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.