MAWATHAGAMA DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 13 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 4 th June, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of June 04, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

[Certified on 4th June, 1999]

L.D.–O.31/96.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MAWATHAGAMA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Mawathagama Development Foundation” has heretoforebeen formed in Mawathagama for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesucessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will for the public advantage to grant suchapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the MawathagamaDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.13 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theMawathagama Development Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”), or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with prepetual succession, under the name and style of the“Mawathagama Development Foundation” and by that namemay sue and be sued in all courts with full power and authorityto have, and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared be–

(a) to improve the economic conditions of the poor ;

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe MawathagamaDevelopmentFoundation.

General Objectsof the Corporation.

H - 022545

2Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

(b) to assist the people engaged in the domesticsubsistance sector and the export agricultural sector,and to improve productivity in such sectors ;

(c) to undertake the management of land developmentand agricultural activities ;

(d) to assist and encourage, rural small industries andthe generation of self employment ;

(e) to encourage and provide incentives to the poor tobe self reliant ;

(f) to contribute actively for the realization of theobjectives of the national programme called andknown as Samurdhi Movement for alleviation ofpoverty ;

(g) to enthuse the public in the malter of primary healthcare, and to provide advise thereon ;

(h) to improve health and nutrition levels, through socialactivation projects and to provide assistance forsocial welfare activities ;

(i) to provide financial assistance and advice, for thesupply of drinking water ;

(j) to provide advice and assistance to low income ruralpoor, in matters relating to housing ;

(k) to educate the public on the ill-effects of liquor, drugsand smoking, and to free people from addictionthereto ;

(l) to implement programmes for the protection of thebasic values of indigenous culture ;

(m) to educate the public on the values of rural culturein order to ensure a desirable social order ;

(n) to implement cultural programmes centered roundplaces of religious worship ;

(o) to implement programmes which highlightindigenous cultural values at national and religiousfestivals ;

Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

(p) to encourage, through various programmes, thedevelopment of indigenous cultural values whichhave hithereto suffered deterioration ;

(q) to contribute, encourage and implement,programmes to uplift pre-school education ;

(r) to assist the students who sit for public examinationof the government within the formal educationalsystem, by holding seminars and discussions ;

(s) to implement programmes aimed at improvingliterati among those students who are left behind inthe school educational system ;

(t) to assist and implement, informal educationalprogrammes ; and

(u) to provide library service facilities.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perfrom and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion of furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise money, with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations to enter into contracts to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation, shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of theChairman, Vice Chairman, Honorary Secretary, HonoraryTreasurer and Three Directors elected from among themembers of the Executive Committee in accordance with therules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

(2) The Chairman of the Corporation shall be the chiefexecutive of the Corporation and shall preside over allmeetings.

(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Management ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written, law, for all or any of the following matters :–

(a) the classification of membership, the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b) the election of the office bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from, office of officebearers, and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c) the election of the members of the Board ofManagement and the Executive Committee and theirpowers, conduct and duties, and the terms of officeof members of the Board of Management and theExecutive Committee ;

(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e) the procedure to be observed and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board of Managementand the Executive Committee, the times, placesnotices and agenda of such meetings, the quorumthereof and the conduct of business thereat ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

(f) the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, andmaintenance and audit of its accounts ; and

(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may beamended, altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subjectto rules of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constiutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purpose of this Act.

8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of the Chairmanand the Honorary Secretary or the Honorary Treasurer whoshall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence, and such signing shall be independent of thesignining of any person as a witness.

Debts due by andpayable to theFoundation

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

6Mawathagama Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999

10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other persons, except, such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofany inconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.