PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF APPLIED STATISTICS,SRI LANKA(INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 38 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th September, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2011

1Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011

Short title

2—PL 005052 —3,090 (07/2010)

[Certified on 20th September, 2011]

L.D.—O.(Inc.) 20/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF APPLIED STATISTICS,SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “AppliedStatistics Association of Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenformed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout it’s objects and transacting all matters connected withthe said Association according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of AppliedStatistics, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “AppliedStatistics Association of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred toas the “Association”) and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka”(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that namemay sue and be sued, with full power and authority to haveand use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote and assist the advancement of appliedstatistics by furtherance of research, development,education, training and extension;

Preamble.

Incorporation ofInstitute ofAppliedStatistics,Sri Lanka.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 20112

(b)to undertake or collaborate in the preparation,publication and dissemination of usefulinformation pertaining to applied statistics bymeans of seminars and lectures and the publicationof articles on applied statistics in the Journal titledthe“Sri Lankan Journal of Applied Statistics” tofoster the training of research workers;

(c)to undertake research in the area of statistics withthe object of improving experimental techniques,statistical methods and data analysis;

(d)to conduct short courses, certificate courses anddiploma courses and to award certificates anddiplomas for those who successfully complete therequirements as set out in the rules of theCorporation;

(e)to co-operate with governmental and non-governmental organizations and national andinternational institutes engaged in the work relatedto statistics in order to promote research,development, education, training and extension; and

(f)to promote professional interests of the members ofthe Corporation.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Council shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out wihtout any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinionor place of birth.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Executive Council (in this Act refferd toas the “Council”) consisting of the President, Vice Presidentand other office bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011

(2) The first Council shall consist of the members of theExecutive Council of the Association holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to:—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the Corporation, all such contractsor agreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositsand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the pusposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

Genenal powersof theCorporation.

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 20114

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law on all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers, duties and functions;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be observed or the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation andthe Council, the time, places, notices and agendaof such meetings and the quorum therefor and theconduct of business thereat;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds;

(f)establishing committees for the proper executionof the objects of the Corporation; and

(g)qualifications and disqualifications of members ofthe Corporation and the Council.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determined by the Council.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid outof the fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Council.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means-

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch institutes ; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued by such institutes.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of Chairman and eitherthe Secretay or the Treasurer duly authorized by the Council

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Seal of theCorporation.

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 20116

who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theAssociation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to themembers of the Corporation.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCorporation shall be able and capable in law to acquire andhold any property, movable or immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of theCorporation and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations having

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

7Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011

objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and whichis, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributingany income or profit among its or their members. Suchassociation or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, and of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala textshall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 20118

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.