NAVODAYA FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 16 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 21st June, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 25, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 16 of 1999

[Certified on 21 st June, 1999]

L.D.– O.23/97.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NAVODAYA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “NavodayaFoundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for thepurpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objectsand matters connceted with the said Foundation according tothe rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Navodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theNavodaya Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “NavodayaFoundation”, and by that name may sue, and be sued in allcourts with full power and authority to have, and use, acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be-

(a) to foster and promote the social, educational andcultural development of under privileged children;

General objectsof theCorporation

Preamble.

Short title

Incorporation ofthe NavodayaFoundation

H - 022545

2Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 16 of 1999

(b) to assist and promote activities relating to childeducation, preschools, child care centres andchildren’s homes;

(c) to promote sports activities and to organize sportscamps with a view to improving the mental andphysical health of the people;

(d) to create employment and self-employmentopportunities and to plan and implement projects toenhance the earnings of low income groups;

(e) to conserve the environment;

(f) to organize programmes to assist youth to developself reliance and leadership qualities;

(g) to conduct courses of study for youth:

(h) to hold exhibitions and to organise lectures, seminars,workshops, conferences and tours with a view topromoting cultural values;

(i) to organize programmes to provide maternity andchild welfare services and to provide anti-natal andpost-natal care, nutrition and medical facilities;

(j) to organize and hold health centres, mobile clinicsand health education programmes;

(k) to organize Sramadana and Saukyadana compaigns;

(l) to collaborate with any other institution ororganization in Sri Lanka or abroad having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation and to exchangeviews and programmes with them ;

(m) to establish and maintain lioraries, to subscribe forand issue books, journals, souvenirs andperiodicals; and

(n) to take all other steps as are necessary or desirablefor the promotion of the above mentioned objects.

3Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 16 of 1999

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation, be administered by an ExecutiveCommittee consisting of the office-bearers and such numberof members as may be provided for in such rules and electedin accordance therewith.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement of thisAct.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the corporation, from time to timeat any general meeting of the Corporation and by a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present and voting tomake rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law, for the following matters-

(a) the admission, classification, or expulsion ofmembers;

(b) for the election of office bearers, the ExecutiveCommittee and the conduct of the duties of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(c) for the procedure to be followed in the transaction ofbusiness at meetings of the Corporation and theExecutive committee;

Powers of theCorporation

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation

Rules of theCorporation

4Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 16 of 1999

(d) the administration and management of the propertyof the corporation, the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(e) generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the corporation may be amended,altered, added to rescinded in like manner as a rulemay be made under subsection (1)

(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement ofthe Act shall, in so far is they are not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act, or any other writtenlaw, be deemed to be rules of the Corporation madeunder this section.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shallbe paid and discharged by the Corporation, and all debts dueto, and subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to acquireand hold any property, movable or immovable which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gifttestamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actwith full power to sell, mortage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of, the encumber or charge the same.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such numberof office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence, and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

Debts due by andpayableto theFoundation.

Corporation, mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

5Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 16 of 1999

10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect,the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor any other persons except such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.