PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 02, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 28th September, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SERENDIB EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 54 OF 2009

1 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

[Certified on 28th September, 2009]

L. D. — O. (Inc.) 25/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SERENDIB EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “SerendibEducational Foundation” has heretofore been establishedfor the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Serendib EducationalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 54 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the SerendibEducational Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Serendib Educational Foundation” (hereinafter referred toas “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be suedwith full power and authority to have and use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to use and apply the funds of the Corporation togrant scholarships and provide career guidance andenhance educational, technical and professionalskills and economic welfare of Sri Lankan Muslims;

2—P L 003912—3,190 (05/2009)

Short Title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe SerendibEducationalFoundation.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

2 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

(b)to guide and assist in the development of educationincluding technological education; and

(c)to assist and promote the advancement of the socialand cultural welfare of the Sri Lankan Muslims.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have power to—

(a)receive grants, gifts, donations and subscriptions incash or in kind;

(b)open, operate and close bank accounts;

(c)borrow or raise money with or without security;

(d)engage, employ and dismiss personnel required toachieve the objects of the Corporation; and

(e)perform and execute all such acts as may benecessary for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, be administered by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).

(2) The Board shall consist of a President, two VicePresidents, a Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, a Secretary, anAssistant Secretary and five other members elected annuallyby the general members, in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of theBoard of Management of the Foundation holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

General Powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe Corporation.

3 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by a majorityof votes, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, in respect of all or any ofthe following matters:—

(a)the procedure to be observed for the meetingsof the Board and the quorum for suchmeetings;

(b)the election, appoitment and removal of themembers of the Board;

(c)the admission, withdrawal or expulsion ofmembers of the Corporation;

(d)the duties of the Board and of the variousofficers and servants of the Corporation; and

(e)the administration and management of thefunds of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,added to, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) There shall be a Fund of the Corporation whichshall consist of—

(a)all monies lying to the credit of the Foundation onthe day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act; and

(b)all monies received by the Corporation by way ofgift, bequest, donation, contribution or grant.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

4 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

(2) All monies lying to the credit of the Fund shall beutilized to defray the expenses incurred in the managementof the affairs of the Corporation and the furtherance of itsobjects.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationand all debts due to, including donations and contributionspayable to the Foundation on that date, shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, both movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act. The Corporation shall have full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of theproperty of the Corporation.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited oncein every year by a qualified auditor appointed for the purposeby the Board.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Audit andaccounts.

Debts due byand payable tothe Corporation.

Corporation mayhold movableand immovableproperty.

5 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other association orassociations having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which is or are, by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or profits among its or their members.Such association or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation or immediately prior to the timeof the dissolution of the Corporation.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body,politic or corporation.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

6 Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 54 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.