PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA-NIPPON EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL CENTRE (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 41 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 1st October, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 05, 2007

1Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

[Certified on 01st October, 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 05/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA-NIPPON EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL CENTRE

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural Centre” has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of effectualy carrying out andtransacting all matters connected with the said associationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka – NipponEducational and Cultural Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Actsuch and so may persons as now are members of the Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural Centre (thereinafter referredto as the “Centre”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka-NipponEducational and Cultural Centre” and by that name may sueand be sued, with full power and authority to have and to usea common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote educational and cultural ties, mutualunderstanding and co-operation between the peopleof Sri Lanka and Japan ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Incorporation ofthe Sri Lanka-NipponEducational andCultural Centre.

Short title.

Preamble.

2Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

(b)to assist Sri Lankans and Japanese to study eachother’s cultures, languages and any other languages,to organize educational tours, to provide hostelfacilities to those who participate in such toursand to exchange educational and culturalrepresentatives ;

(c)to establish and maintain libraries and to purchase,subscribe and publish books, newspapers,periodicals and other publications which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects ;

(d)to establish and award scholarships, grants andprizes to deserving Sri Lankan students and to assistthem in their spiritual, philosophical, cultural,scientific and technical education ;

(e)to join and collaborate with other local and foreignassociations, societies or organizations with objectssimilar to those of the Corporation ;

(f)to provide guidance and other assistance to SriLankans travelling to Japan for educational andcultural purposes ; and

(g)to promote, encourage and assist the artisticcreations, skills in sports and the technicalknowledge of Sri Lankan youth and children and toorganize and maintain work shops, schools andinstitutions therefor.

4.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Corporation shall subject to the rules of the Corporation,made under section 6 be vested in a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of theDirector, Secretary and the Honorary Treasurer of theCorporation and not less than eleven other members to beelected in accordance with such rules.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1) of this section, the Venerable UdagamaSumangala Thero shall be the first Director and the VenerableMeegahatenne Chandrasiri Thero the first Secretary Generalof the Corporation who shall hold office for life unless theyearlier resign from their offices.

(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Centre holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall, have the power—

(a)to acquire, hold and develop any property movableor immovable which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise ;

(b)to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of any such property ;

(c)to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss officers andservants as may be necessary for the purposes of theCorporation ;

(d)to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kindwhether from local or foreign sources ;

(e)to establish branches of the Corporation in anyforeign country for the purpose of carrying out theobjects of the Corporation ;

(f)to open, operate and close bank accounts and toborrow or raise money with the property of thecorporation as security or without such security forthe purposes of the Corporation ;

General Powersof theCorporation.

4Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

(g)to invest money belonging to the Corporation insuch securities as may be determined by the Board ;

(h)to do all such other acts and things as are incidentalor conducive to the carrying out the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at a general meeting and by a majority of not less thantwo thirds of the members present and voting to make rules,not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the election, appointment or nomination of themembers of the Board and their powers and dutiesand the terms of office ;

(b)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(c)the procedure to be observed at summoning andholding of meetings of the Board, the times, places,notices and agendas of such meetings, the quorumtherefor and the conduct of business thereat ;

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds andmaintenance and audit of the account ; and

(e)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the attainment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in thelike manner as a rule may be made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

7.(1) The corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,donation, subcription, fees or grants for and on account ofthe Centre shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporationin one or more banks as the Board of Management shalldetermine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, any expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

8.(1) The financial year of the corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a“qualified auditor”.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the centre on that date shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Debts due by orpayable to thecentre.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudit.

6Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary General of the Corporation and it shall notbe affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the presenceof the Secretary General and such other number of membersof the Board as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

11.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orCorporate or of any other persons.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

7Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and CulturalCentre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.