PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RAHULA COLLEGE MATARA PAST PUPILSASSOCIATION (COLOMBO BRANCH)(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 6 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th March, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2012

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

1

[Certified on 08th March, 2012]

L.D.—O. Inc 24/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE RAHULA COLLEGE, MATARA PAST PUPILSASSOCIATION (COLOMBO BRANCH)

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “RahulaCollege, Matara Past Pupils Association (Colombo Branch)”has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out it’s objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the serveral objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Rahula College, MataraPast Pupils Association (Colombo Branch) (Incorporation)Act, No. 6 of 2012.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Rahula College, Matara Past Pupils Association(Colombo Branch)” (hereinafter referred to as the“Association”) and shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Rahula College,Matara Past Pupils Association (Colombo Branch)” and bythat name may sue and be sued, with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

2—PL 006460—3,190 (12/2011)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe RahulaCollege, MataraPast PupilsAssociation(ColomboBranch).

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

2

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote educational, cultural and socialactivities among past pupils, present pupils, presentteachers and former teachers of Rahula College;

(b)to provide, develop and maintain physical resourcesand other infrastructure facilities for the benefit ofthe students of Rahula College;

(c)to promote welfare, cultural, and socialdevelopment activities in order to improve cordialrelationship with the past pupils and the teachers ofthe Rahula College;

(d)to establish a Trust called the “Rahula CollegeTrust”, to award scholarships and prizes to thestudents of Rahula College who have excelled intheir studies and other activities and to provideassistance to needy students to enable them to attainthe necessary standards;

(e)to establish and maintain libraries, research andtraining centres;

(f)to maintain a cordial relationship with foreign andlocal non governmental organizations for thepurpose of providing Vocational training to studentsof Rahula College; and

(g)to commence income generating projects for variousactivities of the Corporation.

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Executive Committee(hereinafter referredto as the “Committee”) consisting of the President, VicePresidents and other office bearers elected or appointed inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

3

(2) The first Committee shall consist of the membersof the Board of Management of the Association holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten Law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to:—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCoporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations, and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

4

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law on all or any of thefollowing matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers and duties and functions;

(c)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(d)the procedure to be observed or the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and theCommittee, the time, places, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings and the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat; and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like metting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or moreBanks as may be determined by the Committee.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

5

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Committee.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch institute;

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretary of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Committee who shall sign their names onthe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Audit andAccounts.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

6

debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theAssociation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, orotherwise dispose of the same.

14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property, shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to association or associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and whichis, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or profit, among the members. Such association orassociations shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation .

Limitation ofliability ofMembers.

Application ofMoneys andproperty.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

7

15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic and of any body, politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of theRights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Rahula College Matara Past PupilsAssociation (Colombo Branch)(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012

8

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.