PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MADAMPE THANIWELLA MAHA DEVALE TRUST(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 2 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th January, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 30, 2009

1Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

2—PL 003225—3,200 (09/2008)

[Certified on 30th January, 2009]

L.D.—O. Inc 11/2006.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MADAMPE THANIWELLA MAHADEVALE TRUST

WHEREAS a trust called and known as “The MadampeThaniwella Maha Devale Trust” has heretofore been formedfor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with the Trust Deed No. 67dated the fourth of December 1997 attested by VictorPragnawasa Karunaratne, Notary Public according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said Trust hasheretofore successfully carried out and transacted the severalobjects and matters for which it was established and hasapplied to be incorporated and it will be for the publicadvantage to grant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Madampe ThaniwellaMaha Devale Trust (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Madampe Thaniwella Devale Trust” (hereinafter referred toas “The Trust”) and shall hereafter be admitted members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “The Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of “The MadampeThaniwella Maha Devale Trust” and by that name may sueand be sued, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and to alter the same as may be decided by theBoard of Management.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MadampeThaniwella MahaDevale Trust.

2Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to maintain, improve and manage the MadampeThaniwella Maha Devale and its shrine ;

(b)to perform and observe all religious rites inMadampe Thaniwella Maha Devale ;

(c)to organize, supervise and carry out the annual almsgiving at the said Devale ;

(d)to provide for the propagation of the Buddhadhamma among Buddhists and the fostering of theorder of the Sangha ;

(e)to provide for the teaching of Dhamma to Buddhistsby Bhikkus and for the maintenance and welfare ofsuch Bhikkus ; and

(f)to encourage the Buddhists to live a life accordingto the teachings of Buddha.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act, and any rule that may be made undersection 6, be administered by a Board of Trustees (hereinafterreferred to as “the Board”).

(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Madampe Thaniwella MahaDevale Trust, holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the power —

(a)to acquire and hold any property, movable orimmovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise ;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

3Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

(b)to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of any such property ;

(c)to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss such officersand servants as may be necessary for the purpose ofcarrying out the objects of the Corporation ;

(d)to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kindwhether from local or foreign sources;

(e)to open, operate and close bank accounts and toborrow or raise money with or without security ;

(f)to invest moneys belonging to the Corporation insuch securities as may be determined by the Board.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by the votes of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting at suchmeeting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act, or other written law, for all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a)the classification of members and membership feespayable, their admission, withdrawal or expulsionfrom membership ;

(b)the election of members to the Board and its powersand duties ;

(c)the election of office bearers, their term of office,resignation from, vaction of or removel from officeand their powers ;

(d)the duties and functions of the officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be followed in the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board, the quorumtherefore and the conduct of business thereat ; and

Rules of theCorporation.

4Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation including its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and itshall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributionsor fees in cash or kind.

(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name ofthe Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in anysuitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation asmay be decided by the Board.

(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of thefund of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.

In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudit.

5Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law possesses a certificate topractice as an Accountant issued by the Council ofsuch Institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporation and all debts due to, subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Trust on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other institute or instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, andwhich is or are by the rules thereof prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such institution or institutions shall be determinedby the Board at or immediately before the dissolution of theCorporation.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the Custodyof a person or persons as may be determined by the Board ofTrustees of the Corporation and not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of such numberof office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Debts due andpayable to theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andother persons.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

6Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.