PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RESETTLEMENT AUTHORITYACT, NO. 09 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd March, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 13.50Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 23, 2007

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20071

Short title anddate ofoperation.

[Certified on 23rd March, 2007]

L.D.—O. 40/2006

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AUTHORITY TO BE

CALLED THE RESETTLEMENT AUTHORITY : TO VEST THE AUTHORITY

WITH THE POWER TO FORMULATE A NATIONAL POLICY AND TO PLAN,

IMPLEMENT, MONITOR AND CO-ORDINATE THE RESETTLEMENT OF THE

INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS AND REFUGEES ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepubilc of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Resettlement AuthorityAct, No. 09 of 2007 and shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may appoint (hereinafter referred to asthe “appointed date”) by Order published in the Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RESETTLEMENT AUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established a body calledResettlement Authority (hereinafter referred to as “theAuthority”).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate and have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.The Management of the affairs of the Authority shallbe vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as“the Board”) consisting of-

(a)two ex- officio members, namely,-

(i)the Secretary to the Treasury or hisrepresentative ; and

(ii)the Secretary to the Minister of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Plan Implementionor his representative ; and

Establishment ofthe ResettlementAuthority.

Constitution ofthe Board ofDirectors.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20072

(b)seven members appointed as Directors by theMinister from among persons possessing provenexpertise in the areas of resettlement, relocation,rehabilitation, infrastructure development, financeand provincial administration (hereinafter referredto as “appointed members”).

4.(1) The Minister shall appoint, from among theappointed members, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of theAuthority.

(2) The Chairman and Vice- Chairman shall hold officefor a term of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) The Chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer ofthe Authority and shall preside at every meeting of theAuthority and in the absence of the Chairman, the ViceChairman shall preside at any such meeting.

(4) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office on account of ill health, absence fromSri Lanka or any other cause, the Vice Chairman shall act inplace of the Chairman.

5.(1) The term of office of an appointed member of theBoard shall be three years.

(2) An appointed member may resign from his office byletter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(3) The Minister may for reasons assigned, remove anappointed member from office.

(4) An appointed member who has been removed fromoffice shall not be eligible for reappointment as a member ofthe Board or to serve the Authority in any other capacity.

(5) Where a member of the Board dies, resigns or is removedfrom office the Minister shall, having regard to the provisionsof section 5, appoint another member in his place.

Chairman andVice Chairmanof the Authority.

Terms of officeof appointedmembers andtheir removaland resignation.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20073

6.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor from continuing as a member of the Authority, if he is-

(a)a member of Parliament, a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a member of a local authority ; or

(b)a person who, having been declared an insolvent ora bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt ; or

(c)serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any Court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry ;

(d)incapacitated by physical or mental illness ; or

(e)otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functionsof a member.

7.The quorum for any meetings of the Board shall befive members and the Board may regulate the procedure inregard to the meetings of the Board and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

8.No act, decision or proceedings of the Board shall beinvalid by reason only of any vacancy among its members orany defect in the appointment of any its members.

9.The members of the Board may be remunerated insuch manner out of the Fund of the Authority as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

10.The Authority shall, in the exercise of its powers,discharge of its functions and performance of its duties,comply with the general policy of the Government and withany general or special directions issued to it by the Minister,in relation to the implementation of such policy.

Disqualificationfor beingappointed as amember.

Quorum.

Vacancy amongdirectors not toinvalidate acts&c, of theBoard.

Remuneration ofmembers.

Authority tocomply with thegeneral policyof theGovernment.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20074

11.(1) The Seal of the Authority shall be in the custodyof such person as the Board may from time to time decide.

(2) The Seal of the Authority may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Board.

(3) The Seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of theChairman and one other member of the Board, both of whomshall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence :

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the Seal of the Authority is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member of the Boardauthorized in writing by the Chairman in that behalf, shall becompetent to sign such instrument or document in accordancewith the preceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instrumentsor documents to which the Seal of the Authority is affixed.

12.For the purpose of carrying out the powers andfunctions conferred on, or assigned to it by this Act, theAuthority may establish and maintain where necessary,branch offices in identified districts.

PART II

OBJECTIVES, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS

13.The objectives of the Authority shall be to-

(a)ensure resettlement or relocation in a safe anddignified manner of internally displaced personsand refugees ;

(b)facilitate the resettlement or relocation of theinternally displaced persons and refugees in orderto rehabilitate and assist them by facilitating theirentry into the development process.

Seal of theAuthority.

Establishment ofBranch offices.

Objectives of theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20075

14.For the purpose of carrying out the objectsof the Authority, the Authority shall discharge the followingfunctions :-

(a)to formulate and implement a resettlement policyin consultation with the Ministry of Resettlementfor the internally displaced persons and refugees ;

(b)to co-ordinate the efforts of the Government, donors,international non-governmental organizations, civilsociety agencies and others possessing the requiredmandates and resources in order to end displacementof persons ;

(c)to formulate and implement specific programmesand projects for resettlement and relocation ofinternally displaced persons and refugees in a safeand dignified manner ;

(d)to assist the internally displaced persons andrefugees to obtain lost documents such as Birth,Death and Marriage Certificates, Identity Cards,Deeds relating to property and any other documentswhich they may require from any governmentdepartment. ;

(e)to assist in providing infrastructure facilities,education and health facilities ;

(f)to implement resettlement programmes includinghousing schemes to facilitate the resettlement andrelocation ;

(g)to assist in the mobilization of both local andforeign financial resources to implement the plannedprogrammes ;

(h)to facilitate in solving problems relating toownership and possession right of movable andimmovable assets ;

(i)to forge a better understanding between theinternally displaced persons and host communities ;

Functions of theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20076

(j)to facilitate the restoration of basic human rightsincluding cultural rights to empower internallydisplaced persons ;

(k)to receive representations on the needs of thedisplaced and to make representations regarding thesame to agencies mandated to find solutions ;

(l)to mobilize the displaced to initiate and implementpartnerships for the recovery and development inaccordance with individual or community needs ;

(m)to promote livelihood activities among displacedpersons and refugees ;

(n)to provide reasonable access to information onpolicies, resources and progress on activityearmarked for their recovery and facilitate dialoguewith concerned intervening agencies ; and

(o)to ensure a conducive physical environment forresettlement, by clearing land mines and debris andrepairing the damaged infrastructure.

15.The Authority may, for the purpose of dischargingits functions, exercise all or any of the following powers :-

(a)acquire and hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, sell or otherwise dispose of any movableor immovable property ;

(b)clear and re-develop the land acquired either fromthe State or from private individuals ;

(c)enter into and perform all such contracts, as it mayconsider necessary for the discharge of its functions ;and

(d)accept gifts, grants or donations whether in cash orotherwise and to apply them in the discharge of itsfunctions.

Powers of theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20077

16.(1) The Authority shall have the power to enter intoany agreement with any government department, localauthority, public corporation, or any other institution, whetherprivate or public including joint venture companies, for thepurpose of enabling the efficient exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions of the Authority.

(2) Every such agreement shall be in writing and shallupon registration with the Authority constitute a valid andbinding contract as between such government department,local authority, public corporation and any other institutionswhether private or public including joint venture companies.

17.The Board may, in writing under the seal of theAuthority or in such other manner as may be provided by therules made by the Authority, empower any other person eithergenerally or in respect of any specific matter, to act for andon behalf of the Authority, in any place outside Sri Lanka.

18.(1) Where any land or any interest in any land withinany designated area is required by the Authority for theimplementation of any of the projects and the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette approves the proposedacquisition, such land or interest in land may accordingly beacquired under the Land Acquisition Act and be transferredto the Authority as if such land or interest in land is requiredfor a public purpose:

Provided however, that where any land or any interest inany land of an estate situated within the designated area isrequired by the Authority, the Minister shall consult theMinister in charge of the subject of Plantation Industries,before publishing the Order, under this section for theacquisition of such land or interest in such land.

(2) In any case where any land or any interest in any landwithin any designated area is to be acquired under the LandAcquisition Act for any purpose of the Authority and public

Powers of theAuthority toenter into anyagreement.

Empowering ofpersons to actfor Authorityoutside SriLanka.

Compulsoryacquisition ofland.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20078

notice of the intention to acquire that land or interest ispublished as required by that Act, any time within a period ofthree years commencing from the date of publication of theOrder under subsection (1), the following provisions shallapply for the purpose of determining the amount ofcompensation to be paid in respect of that land or interest,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in that Act—

(a)the market value of the land shall be deemed to bethe market value, the land would have had, on thedate of publication of such Order, if it then were inthe same condition as it is at the time of acquisition,increased by a reasonable amount on account ofbona fide improvements if any, effected to such landafter such date;

(b)in ascertaining the market value of the land at thedate of publication of such Order, no account shallbe taken of any benefit or increase in value whichmay have accrued, or any expectation of benefit orincrease in value likely to accrue directly orindirectly, from any work of development or otheroperation of the Authority in pursuance of this Act.

19.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for any purpose of the Authority, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leasemay be made under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance(Chapter 454) and the provisions of that Ordinance shallaccordingly apply to a special grant or lease of such propertyto the Authority.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor any purpose of the Authority, the Minister may by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in the Authoritythe possession and use of such movable property :

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movableproperty of the State shall be made by the Minister under thepreceding provisions of this subsection, without theconcurrence of the Minister having control over such property.

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 20079

PART III

FINANCE

20.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund. Thereshall be paid into the Fund :—

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Authority;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions underthis Act;

(c)all loans, donations, gifts or grants received by theAuthority from any source whether in or outside SriLanka, provided such sums shall be accounted forthrough the normal budgetary process.

(2) The financial year of the Authority shall be the calendaryear.

(3) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Authority.

(4) The provision of Article 154 of the Constitution relatingto the audit of accounts of public corporations shall apply tothe audit of the accounts of the Authority.

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

21.(1) There shall be a Director-General appointed bythe Minister, who shall, subject to the general or specialdirection and control of the Board, be charged with thedirection of the affairs and transactions of the Authority, theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions and the administration and control of the officersand servants of the Authority.

Fund of theAuthority.

Director-General.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200710

(2) The Director-General may, with the approval of theAuthority, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate to any officer or servant any power, duty or functionconferred or imposed on, or assigned to him by this Act andsuch officer or servant shall exercise, perform and dischargesuch power, function or duty subject to the general or specialdirections of the Director-General.

22.(1) The Authority may appoint such officers andservants as it considers necessary for the efficient dischargeof its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1) shall be remunerated in such a manner and at such ratesand shall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Authority in consultation with theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of finance with the approval of the Minister.

(3) At the request of the Authority any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of that officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the Authority for such period as may be determined by theAuthority, or with like consent be permanently appointed tosuch staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of the section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

Staff of theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200711

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Authority by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Authority, any member of theLocal Government Service or any other officer or servant of alocal authority, may, with the consent of such member, officeror servant and the Local Government Service Commission,or the local Authority, as the case may be, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for such period as maybe determined by the Authority or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such staff on such terms andconditions (including those relating to pension or providentfund rights) as may be agreed upon by the Authority and theLocal Government Service Commission or that localAuthority, as the case may be.

(8) Where any member of a Local Government Service orany officer or servant of any local Authority is appointedtemporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of the Authority,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyother member of the staff of this Authority.

23.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer orservant of a public corporation may, with the consent of suchofficer or servant and the governing board of such corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Authority or withlike consent be permanently appointed to the staff of theAuthority on such terms and conditions, including thoserelating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreedupon by the Authority and the governing board of suchcorporation.

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily orpermanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the Authority,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyother member of the staff of the Authority.

Appointment ofofficers andservants ofpublicCorporations tothe staff of theAuthority.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200712

(3) For the purpose of this section ‘governing board’ inrelation to a public corporation means the Board of Directorsor other body in which the administration and managementof that public corporation has been vested.

GENERAL

24.The Authority may, delegate in writing the exerciseor discharge of any power or function vested in or assignedto the Authority to the Director General or to any officer orservant of the Authority or to any officer of any governmentdepartment or public corporation with the consent of suchofficer. The Authority may notwithstanding any suchdelegation exercise, perform or discharge any such power,duty or function, so delegated.

25.The Authority shall not make any investment in orotherwise transact business with an enterprise of which amember of the Authority is a partner, director or shareholderor is in any other way directly or indirectly interested, unlessthe transaction is approved by the Minister.

26.(1) The Minister may, give to the Authority inwriting, general or special directions as to the performance ofthe duties and the exercise of the powers of the Authority. Itshall be the duty of the Authority to comply with suchdirections.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, in writing, directthe Authority to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts and other information with respect to theproperty and activities of the Authority. It shall be the dutyof the Authority to comply with such direction.

27.The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter52) and the provisions of that Act, shall be construedaccordingly.

Delegation ofpowers of theBoard.

Authority notto transactbusiness withenterprises inwhich amember hasinterest,unlessapproved bythe Minister.

Directions ofthe Minister.

Authoritydeemed to bea scheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning ofthe BriberyAct.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200713

28.All members, officers and servants of the Authorityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

29.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—

(a)against the Authority for any Act which in goodfaith is done or purported to be done by the Authorityunder this Act; or

(b)against any member, officer, servant or agent of theAuthority for any Act which in good faith is done oris purported to be done by him under this Act or onthe direction of the Authority.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Authority before anyCourt, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, and anycosts paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in any suchsuit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecutionbrought against him before any Court in respect of any actwhich is done or is purported to be done by him under thisact or on the direction of the Authority shall if the Courtholds that such act is done in good faith, be paid out of thefund of the Authority, unless such expense is recovered byhim in such suit or prosecution.

30.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theAuthority, make regulations in respect of matters required bythis Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made.

Members,officers andservants of theauthoritydeemed to bepublic servants.

Protection foraction takenunder this Act oron the directionof the Authority.

Regulations.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200714

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation and shall be as valid and effectualas if it were herein enacted.

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as it is convenient afterits publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliamentfor approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded from the date of disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

31.(1) The Authority may make rules—

(a)for the regulation of procedure and the transactionof business at meetings; and

(b)providing for the custody and manner of affixingthe Seal of the Authority.

(2) Every rule made by the Authority shall be publishedin the Gazette.

32.The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for aperiod of six years from the date of its coming intooperation.

33.The Authority shall with the concurrence of theMinister in-charge of the subject of Finance, be exempt fromthe payment of any tax on the income or profits of theAuthority to such extent as is permitted in terms of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.

34.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Rules.

Act to beoperative for aperiod of sixyears.

Exemption ofAuthority frompayments ofduties & etc.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Resettlement Authority Act, No. 09 of 200715

Interpretation.35. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Internally Displaced Persons (IDP’s)” means, personswho have been forced or obliged to flee or to leavetheir homes or places of habitual residence inparticular as a result of or in order to avoid the effectsof armed conflict situations of generalized violence;

“local authority” means, any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyAuthority created and established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge powers, dutiesand functions corresponding to or similar to thepowers, duties and functions exercised, performedand discharged by any such Council or Sabha.

“Public Corporation” means any Corporation, board orother body which was or is established by or underany written law other than the Companies Act, No.17 of 1982 or any other Act which may be enactedin its place with funds or capital wholly or partlyprovided by the Government by way of grants, loansor otherwise.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.