PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 06, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 05th February, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

RETIRED SENIOR POLICE OFFICERS’ASSOCIATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 3 OF 2009

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20091

Short title.

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

[Certified on 05th February, 2009]

L.D.—O. (Inc) 29/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RETIRED SENIOR POLICE OFFICERS’ASSOCIATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “RetiredSenior Police officers’ Association” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Association :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Retired Senior PoliceOfficers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theRetired Senior Police Officers’ Association (hereinafterreferred to as the “Association” or “R.S.P.O.A”) or shallhereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under thename and style of the “Retired Senior Police Officers’Association”, and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to foster a spirit of camaraderie and Esprit-de-Corps;

Incorporationof the RetiredSenior PoliceOfficers’Association.

2Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009

(b)to afford Members an opportunity to meet together;

(c)to promote the welfare of its members, their familiesand that of other retired Police Officers and theirfamilies, who are non-members of the Association;

(d)to assist the spouse of members, in organising the“Ladies Wing” of the R. S. P. O. A.;

(e)to grant financial and other assistance wherepossible, to its members and any other retired PoliceOfficers;

(f)to render to the country any service consistent withthe object of the Association;

(g)to help and assist the members when they are inneed of medical assistance;

(h)to collaborate with any other institution ororganization, whether foreign or local havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation; and

(i)to do any act or thing generally essential to achievethe above objectives.

4. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rulesof the Corporation, be administered by an ExecutiveCommittee consisting of the President, two vice Presidents,Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer,not less than five committee members and two immediatePast Presidents elected in accordance with such rules madeunder section 6.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Executive Committee ofthe Association holding office on the day immediatlypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20093

General powersof theCorporation.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise money for the purposes of theCorporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instruments;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such a manner asthe Executive Committee may think fit;

(e)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation to executedisciplinary action on them;

(g)to seek, receive or collect subscriptions, grants,donations and gifts whether in cash or kind fromany person locally or foreign sources;

(h)to operate, open and close bank accounts and toborrow or raise money with or without security; and

(i)to do all such other acts or things as may be necessaryor conducive to the carrying out of the objects ofthe Corporation.

4Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for the followingmatters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee, the resignation from or vacation of orremoval from office and their powers, conduct andduties;

(c)the powers, conduct and duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents, servants of the Corporation,their appointments, the resignation from or vacationof and removal from office;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meeting of the Executive Committee,the times, places, notices and agenda of suchmeetings and the quorum thereof and the conductof business thereat;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation the custody of its funds; andmaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner, as a rule at alike meeting and in like manner as a rule made undersubsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20095

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation, made under thissection.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way oftestamentary disposition, donations, subscriptions,contributions and fees shall be deposited in the name of theCorporation in one or more State Banks as may be decidedby the Executive Committee.

(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development and improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneysto defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act.

(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation, howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects set-forth herein and no portion thereof shall be paidor transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonusor otherwise however to the members of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold subject to any express trust or otherwise,any property movable or immovable which may becomevested in it by virture of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 6 with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, grant, convey,devise, assign or otherwise dispose of the same.

9.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all money received and expended by the Corporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

6Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year and the correctness ofincome, expenditure and the balance sheet shall be certifiedby a qualified auditor or auditors appointed by theCorporation.

(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Association on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts dueto, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Associationon the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to institution or institutions havingobjects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which isor are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property, among the members of the suchinstitution or institutions and at the discretion of theExecutive Committee of the Corporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Remains ondissolution of theCorporation.

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20097

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence ofPresident and the Secretary or such other person dulyauthorized by the Executive Committee who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Seal of theCorporation.

8Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.