PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SEETHAWAKA MANIYANGAMARAJAMAHA VIHARASTHA SANWARDHANASABHAWA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 44 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th October, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 2007

1Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

2—PL002181–3,300 (06/2007)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 12th October, 2007]

L. D.—O. INC 16/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SEETHAWAKA MANIYANGAMARAJAMAHA VIHARASTHA SANWARDHANA SABHAWA

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “SeethawakaManiyangama Rajamaha Viharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa”has heretofore been formed for the purpose of developmentand maintenance of the Seethawaka Maniyangama RajamahaVihara and all Vihara, Aramayas, Shrines and institutionsbelonging, affiliated or connected to, it and for effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Society :

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit is for the public advantage to grant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the SeethawakaManiyangama Rajamaha Viharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of theSeethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to as the“Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “SeethawakaManiyangama Rajamaha Viharastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa”and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofthe SeethawakaManiyangamaRajamahaViharasthaSanwardhanaSabhawa.

2Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isinstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to construct and maintain buildings and otherinfrastructural facilities required for SeethawakaManiyangama Rajamaha Viharaya ;

(b)to provide the resident Bhikkus of the SeethawakaManiyangama Rajamaha Viharaya, with necessaryeducational facilities and to supply their dailyneeds;

(c)to award scholarships, fellowships, prizes andbursaries to Buddhist monks and Buddhist laity witha view to promoting the study of, and research into,Buddhism and Buddhist, philosophy ;

(d)to foster, promote and protect the Buddha Sasanaand to inculcate the teachings of Lord Buddha andthe values of Buddhism, among the Buddhist ;

(e)to provide appropriate educational training to theMaha Sangha ;

(f)to establish and maintain educational institutions,including dhamma schools, pirivenas and trainingcenters, for the benefit of Buddhists ;

(g)to establish and maintain libraries, information andresource centers for the benefit of the Buddhists ;

(h)to organize Buddhist festivals and to preserve theBuddhist traditions and Buddhist culture ; and

(i)to organize and implement cultural and socialdevelopment services.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

3Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss such officers and servantsas are required for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules of theCorporation be administered by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of the officebearers and such other persons as may be provided for in therules of the Corporation and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of themembers of the Board of Management of the Society holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and bymajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with provisions ofthis Act or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawalor expulsion of members, for the election of office bearers,for the performance of the duties of the office bearers, theBoard and of the various officers, agents and of the servantsof the Corporation, for the procedure to be followed in thetransaction of business at meetings of the Corporation and ofthe Board and otherwise generally, for the management ofthe affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of itsobjects. Such rules when made may at a like meeting and inlike manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Reles of theCorporation.

4Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

7.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited atleast once in every year by a qualified auditor appointed bythe Board.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchinstitute

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions fees orgrants for and on account of the Corporation shall be depositedto the credit of the Corporation in one or more bank as theBoard shall determine.

(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exerciseand discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debtsdue to and subscriptions and contributions payable to thesaid Society on that day, shall be paid to the Corporationhereby constituted.

Accounts andaudit.

Fund of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

5Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, with full power to sell, mortgage, rent, lease, exchangeor otherwise dispose of the same.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Suchinstitution or institutions shall be determined by the Boardat, or immediately before, the dissolution of the Corporation.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument, whatsoever except in the presence of theChairman, the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporationwho shall sign their names to instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orcorporate,or of any other persons.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofanyinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

6Seethawaka Maniyangama Rajamaha ViharasthaSanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.