PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SIRINIWES PRAJAMITHRA SAHAYOGITHAKENDRAYA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 4 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 2010

1Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010

Short title.

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 11/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SIRINIWES PRAJAMITHRA SAHAYOGITHAKENDRAYA.

WHEREAS a “Kendraya” called and known as the SiriniwesPrajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya has heretofore beenestablished at Sri Priyadarshanarama Purana RajamahaViharasthanaya at Kobbewala, Gampola for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Kendraya according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Kendraya has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Siriniwes PrajamithraSahayogitha Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theSiriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya (hereinafterreferred to as “Kendraya”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate, ( hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of“Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya” and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe SiriniwesPrajamithraSahayogithaKendraya.

Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20102

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be to —

(a)improve the economic standards of the poor familiesliving within Sri Lanka ;

(b)collaborate with the Government activities toimprove and maintain standard of education of thesepoor families;

(c)assist and support the activities to eliminatepoverty and improve the financial standards of thepoor;

(d)support the activities in the protection andconservation of the environment;

(e)improve health and nutrition levels through socialactivation projects and to provide assistance forsocial welfare activities;

(f)collaborate with any other Institution or Organizationin Sri Lanka or abroad having objects similar tothose of the Corporation and to exchange viewsand programmes with them;

(g)assist in the provision of books, instrument,clothing, loans and other financial assistance tochildren in lower income families which needassistance;

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts to borrow or raise money with or without security

General objectsof theCorporation.

Genaral Powersof theCorporation.

3Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010

to receive or collect grants and donations to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss officers and serventsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 7 be administered by a Committee ofmanagement consisting of the Executive Director, President,Administrative Secretary, Treasurer and Committee Membersconsisting not less than nineteen members and not more thantwenty three members elected in accordance with such rules.

(2) The first Committee of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Kendraya holding officeon the day prior to the date of commencement of this Actand who shall hold office until a new Committee ofManagement is elected under the rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) The Viharadhipathi of the Sri PriyadarshanaramaPurana Rajamaha Viharasthanaya at Kobbewala, Gampolashall be the Executive Director of the Corporation.

(2) Where the Executive Director of the Corporation, dueto ill health or any other cause, is temporarily unable todischarge the duties as Executive Director, he shall nominatethe most senior bikku in the Sri Priyadarshanarama PuranaRajamana Viharasthanaya to dischrge such duties during suchabsence.

(3) Ven. Kobbewala Siriniwasa Nahimi, the Viharadhipathiof the Sri Priyadarshanarama Purana RajamahaViharasthanaya, who was the life patron and the ExecutiveDirector of the Kendraya, shall be the first Executive Directorof the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by majority of not less thantwo thirds of the members present and voting to make rules,

The Managementof the affairs ofthe Corporation.

ExecutiveDirector.

Rules of theCorporation.

Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20104

not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal, resignation or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers and their powers, functions and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee ofManagement and the powers, functions and dutiesand the terms of office of members of the Committeeof Management;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of theofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement, the time, place, notice and agenda ofsuch meeting, the quorum therefore and the conductof business thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

8.The seal of the Corporation shall—

(a)be in the custody of the executive Director and thePresident Priest;

Seal of theCorporation.

5Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010

(b)not be affixed to any document except with thesanction of the Committee of Management and inthe presence of two members of the Committee ofManagemtnt who shall sign the document in tokenof their presence.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, lease, testamentary disposition and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,and subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section7 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

Accounts andAudit.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20106

11.No member of the Corporation shall for purpose ofdischarging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or forany other purpose, be liable to make any contribution otherthan what may be due from him to the Corporation.

12.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Council.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exerciseand discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andOthers.

Funds of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

7Siriniwes Prajamithra SahayogithaKendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.