PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REHABILITATIONAND EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT FUND(INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 52 OF 1999

[Certified on 14th December, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 17, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs.6.75Postage: Rs.3.50

(Internet Version)

1Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

[Certified on 14th December, 1999]

L.D. – O. 2/94.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE REHABILITATION AND EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT FUND

WHEREAS a Fund called and known as the “Rehabilitationand Education Development Fund” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Fund according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Fund has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and the Board of Directors of theFund has applied to be incorporated and it will be for thepublic advantage to grant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Board of Directors ofthe Rehabilitation and Education Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,the Board of Directors for the time being of such and so manypersons as now are members of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “the Board ofDirectors of the Rehabilitation and Education DevelopmentFund” and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts,with full power and authority to have and use a commonseal and alter the same at its pleasure.

H - 022545

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Board ofDirectors of theRehabilitation andEducationDevelopmentFund.

2Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be -

(a) to improve and promote the educational, religious,cultural, social and economic welfare of the peopleof Sri Lanka ;

(b) to work for the elimination of social and otherinequalities among the people of Sri Lanka ;

(c) to promote the overall welfare of theunderdeveloped and socialy disadvantaged peopleof Sri Lanka, particularly the personsbelonging to “Navathar Community” living in theNorth and Eastern provinces of Sri Lanka, whohave not made sufficient progress in overall socialdevelopment ;

(d) to foster the spirit of unity and to promote goodwilland friendship, among the people of Sri Lanka ;

(e) to foster and promote the Tamil Language,Literature and Culture ;

(f) to grant financial aid and award scholarships forprimary, secondary and higher education ;

(g) to maintain and administer, Scholarship Funds ;

(h) to promote, encourage and assist in organising,competitions, debates, lectures, discussions,displays and demonstrations and to print andpublish, magazines, brochures, study materials andother literature ;

(i) to establish and maintain libraries, reading roomsand study circles ;

General Objectsof theCorporation.

3Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

(j) to provide consultancy and training services topromote education, management, trade, industries,agriculture and welfare activities ;

(k) to provide assistance, financial or otherwise, towidows, orphans, destitutes, persons affected bycivil disturbances and handicapped persons ;

(l) to establish, administer and maintain, orphanagesand homes for the aged and destitutes ;

(m) to organise, promote and encourage, people toundertake projects relative to trade, agriculture orindustry with or without loan assistance ;

(n) to establish, maintain and administer a deathBenevolent Fund, Housing and Loan Schemes ;

(0) to assist, relief, rehabilitaion, reconstruction,housing and other welfare activities undertaken bystate agencies and non-govermental agencies ; and

(p) to do all such other acts and things as are or maybe necessary or desirable for the attainment orpromotion of the above mentioned objects of theCorporation.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionand furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations to enter into anycontracts, to invest its funds, to grant loans onpersonal guarantees, or otherwise and to engage, employ anddismiss officers and servants required for the carring out theobjects of the Corporation.

General powers ofthe Corporation.

4Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

5.(1) It shall be lawful for the corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act and any other written law for all or anyof the following matters :-

(a) the appointment of the members of the Corporationand their powers, conduct and duties ;

(b) the appointment, powers, conduct, duties andfunctions of the various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(c) the criteria for selection of beneficiaries and theallocation of resources among different beneficiarygroups ;

(d) the collection, investment and disbursement of thefunds of the Corporation and the opening,operation and closing of bank accounts ;

(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation, thetimes, places, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct ofbusiness thereat ;

(f) the administration and management of the prop-erty of the Coporation, the custody of its fundsand the maintenance and audit of its accounts ;

(g) the terms and conditions for affiliating the Federation of Community Advancement Societiesand its member societies with the Corporation ;and

(h) generally, for the managment of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation for the time beingin force or any rule which may hereafter be passed may beamended, altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner as a rule made under sub-section (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

5Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

(3) the rules of the Rehabilitation and EducationDevelopment Fund in force on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rules ofthe Corporation made under this section, in so far as they arenot inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law.

(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

6.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund existing on the day precedingthe date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid anddischarged by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contribution, payable to, theRehabilitation and Education Development Fund on that dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

8.The Federation of Community AdvancementSocieties and its member societies may be affiliated to theCorporation in accordance with the rules inforce for the timebeing of the Corporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Debts dueand payableto the Fund.

Federation ofCommunityAdvancementSocieties and itsmember societiesaffiliatedCorporate bodiesof theCorporation.

6Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

9. (1) The Corporation shall not be dissolved unless bydecision taken at a special general meeting of the memberssummoned for the purpose and by a three- fourths majority ofthe members present and voting thereat.

(2) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to the Federation of Community AdvancementSocieties and or to its affiliated member societies, forpromotion and furtherance of its or their objects.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Managing Director and the seal may be altered in suchmanner as may be determined by the Corporation. The sealshall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except withthe sanction of the Corporation and in the presence of twoDirectors authorised by the Corporation who shall sign theirnames in token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.(a) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means –(i) an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

7Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation andEducation Development Fund(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999

(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic of anybody politic orcorporate or of any other persons, except such as are men-tioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala text and the Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

The rights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.