PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 4, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 29th January, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SRI LANKA FEDERATION OF THEVISUALLY HANDICAPPED(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 4 OF 2007

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20071

[Certified on 29th January, 2007]

L. D. — O. (INC) 24/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA FEDERATION OF THEVISUALLY HANDICAPPED

WHEREAS a Federation called and known as the “Sri LankaFederation of the Visually Handicapped” has heretofore beenformed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said Federation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Federation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Federation ofthe Visually Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as are now members of the SriLanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped (hereinafterreferred to as the “Federation”) and shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession under the name and style of the“Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped”, and bythat name may sue and be sued in all Courts with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame in such manner as may be decided by the ExecutiveCommittee of the Corporation.

Incorporationof the SriLankaFederation ofthe VisuallyHandicapped.

Short title.

Preamble.

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20072

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to unite all visually handicapped people living inSri Lanka ;

(b)to provide welfare services to the visuallyhandicapped and to seek solutions to common andindividual problems confronted by the visuallyhandicapped community;

(c)to inform the State and other organisations withregard to common and individual issues confrontedby the visually handicapped community ;

(d)to create awareness among the visually handicappedcommunity on the various services provided forthem by the State and other organisation and toassist them to derive benefits from such programmes ;

(e)to create awareness among the general public withregard to the services and assistance required by thevisually handicapped community ;

(f)to make appropriate efforts to eliminatemisconceptions and false attitudes prevailing in thesociety regarding blindness and blind people ;

(g)to act as a mediator to find solutions to legal issuesconfronted by the visually handicappedcommunity ;

(h)to liaise with other organisations having objectssimilar to those the Corporation ;

(i)to raise funds in order to provide necessary welfareservices to the visually handicapped community ;

(j)to act in every possible way to eradicate causes ofblindness ;

General Objectsof theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20073

(k)to establish and maintain “homes for the aged”specially designed and equipped for the visuallyhandicapped community ;

(l)to establish and maintain rehabilitation centres andwelfare centres for the visually handicappedcommunity ; and

(m)to take all other steps as are necessary or desirablefor the promotion of all or any of the foregoingobjects.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its fundsand to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act, and the rules in force for the timebeing of the Corporation be administered by an ExecutiveCommittee consisting of the office bearers and such numberof Committee Members as may be provided for in the rulesand elected in accordance therewith.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shallconsist of the Members of the Executive Committee of theFederation, holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by a majorityof not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting

Powers of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20074

to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct, or any other written law, for all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a)the admission, classification and withdrawal ofmembership and expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of office bearers, the ExecutiveCommittee and the conduct of the duties of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(c)for the procedure to be followed in the transactionof business at meetings of the Corporation and theExecutive Committee ;

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts ; and

(e)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule may be made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Federation existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation,and all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributionspayable to the Federation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue, of any purchase, grant,

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20075

gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof, the same.

9.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

The Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Sri Lanka Federation of the VisuallyHandicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 20076

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.