PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 6, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 05th July, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SRI LANKA BUDDHIST VIHARA DEVALAFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 22 OF 2007

Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 20071

Short Title.

Incorporation ofthe Sri LankaBuddhistVihara DevalaFoundation.

[Certified on 05th July 2007]

L.D. — O./INC 9/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA BUDDHIST VIHARA DEVALAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Sri LankaBuddhist Vihara Devala Foundation” has heretofore beenformed for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has hereto forsuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Buddhist ViharaDevala Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “SriLanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation” or shall hereafterbe admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”), with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of “Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation”and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and alter the sameat its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby delcared to be —

(i)to provide assistance and facilities for the educationof bhikkus ;

Preamble.

General objectsof the Corpora-tion.

2Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2007

(ii)to provide assistance to needy Bhikkhus for thepresentations of Acts of Appointment, and to anyperson or organisation for the cremation of suchbhikkhu on his demise ;

(iii)to provide monetary assistance for repairs orconstructions of new Buddhist Viharas and Devalas ;

(iv)to help to obtain suitable places for the relocationof Viharas situated in uncongenial places ;

(v)to assist in the promotion of education of Silmatasand for the supply of their other needs ;

(vi)to promote Buddhist morals and ethics in the society ;

(vii)to encourage saving habit and to foster mutual helpand understanding among the members of thecorporation;

(viii)to fulfil economic, cultural and social objectives ofthe Buddhists through Buddhist principles ;

(ix)to grant loans to Buddhists on easy terms or free ofinterest urgent personal needs such as purchase of aland, construction of a house and self employment ;

(x)to assist the Buddhist children financially orotherwise with a view to promoting their education ;

(xi)to provide assistance for the fostering of the Buddha,Dhamma both locally and globally ;

(xii)to provide assistance for printing of Dhamma Booksto further the knowledge of the Dhamma ;

(xiii)to provide assistance and take suitable steps for theprotection and development of the properties of theBuddhist temples and devalas ;

Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 20073

(xiv)to provide assistance to Buddhists who havingpledged their abode or land as security for loansraised from financial institutions, are faced withbanks recovery procedings upon default inpayments ;

(xv)to provide any other assistance that may be deemednecessary for the welfare of the Buddhists ;

(xvi)to originate any other programme for the upliftmentof the Buddha Sasana and provide assistancetherefor ;

(xvii)to take legal action against any vilification of LordBuddha the Buddhist doctrine and the members ofthe Sangha ;

(xviii)to take appropriate action to sustain and safeguardthe Buddha Sasana, its security, its developmentand progress and the welfare of Buddhist Monksand Buddhists as well as of places of worship.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employand dismiss officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and any rule to be made, beadministered by a Board of Governors consisting oftwenty-nine members.

(2)Of the twenty-nine members —

(a)twenty-one members shall be elected at a meetingof the general body; and

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2007

(b)the following members shall hold office ex-officio :—

(i)the Malwatta and Asgiriya Most Ven.Mahanayake Theros of both the Chapters, ofthe Syamopali Maha Nikaya, the Most Ve.Mahanayake Thero holding the Post ofPresident of the Sri Lanka Amarapura SangaSabha of the Amarapura Nikaya and the MostVen. Mahanayake Thero of the Sri LankaRamanna Maha Nikaya ;

(ii)the Viharadhipati Nayake Theros of the fourPirivenas, namely Vidyodaya Maha Pirivena,Vidyalankara Pirivena, SaddharmakaraPirivena of Pinwatte and Saraswathi Pirivenaof Balagalla.

(3) The Board of Governors shall elect the President, VicePresident and Treasurer from among its members and it shallhave the power to recruit a suitable person to be the Secretarywho shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation.

(4) The first Board of Governors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Committee of Management ofthe foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of the commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or anyother written law, on all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of members and membership feespayable, their admission, withdrawal or expulsionfrom membership ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 20075

(b)the election of Members to the Board of Governorsand its powers, and duties ;

(c)the election of office bearers, their term of office,resignation from, vacation of or removal from officeand their powers and duties ;

(d)the duties and functions of the officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be followed in the summoning andholding of meetings of the Board, the quorumtherefor and the conduct of business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, including its funds; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1)

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and itshall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions,fees or contributions in cash or kind from local and foreigninstitutions and individuals, members and non members.

(2)All moneys received shall be deposited in the nameof the Corproation in one or more banks and be invested inany suitable manner to achieve the object of the Corporationas may be decided by the Board of Governors.

Funds of theCorporation.

6Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2007

(3) The Corporatin may establish a depreciation fund orsinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(4) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of thefund of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold property both movable and immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any pruchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, shall have power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

9.If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remainsany property after the satisfacgtion of all its debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferredto some other institution or institutions having objects similarto those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members.

10.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of the Chairman orVice Chairman and the Secretary, both or who shall sign theirnames on the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

11.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all ohter transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Board of Governors.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Accounts andAudits

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation

Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 20077

Safeguarding ofthe rights of theRepublic andothers.

12.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

8Sri Lanka Buddhist Vihara Devala Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 22 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.