PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 25, 2008

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 23rd January, 2008]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SRI SARANANKARA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 2 OF 2008

Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20081

Short Title.

Incorporationof the SriSaranankaraDevelopmentFoundation.

2 —PL 001612 — 3,250 (11/2006)

[Certified on 23rd January 2008]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 21/2004

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI SARANANKARADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as“Sri Saranankara Development Foundation” has heretoforebeen formed at Baddegama in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri SaranankaraDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2008.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of the “SriSaranankara Development Foundation” (hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of “SriSaranankara Development Foundation” and by that namemay sue and be sued, with full power and authority to have,and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to upgrade the economic and social conditions ofthe members of the Sri Saranankara Foundation ;

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2008

(b)to uplift the living conditions of the people and todevelop the practices of the thrift ;

(c)to upgrade the economic and social conditions ofthe disabled ;

(d)to encourage the members of the Foundation toengage in self-employment ;

(e)to establish and maintain libraries for uplifting thestandards of children and elders ;

(f)to collaborate or participate with any otherinstitution or organisation, whether foreign or localhaving objects similar to those of the Corporation ;

(g)to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,workshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lankaand elsewhere ; and

(h)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem, including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwiseobtain, lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b)to receive grants, gifts or donations, in cash kindwhether from local or foreign sources ;

Powers of theCorporation.

Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20083

(c)to erect or cause to be erected, any building orstructure on any land belonging to, or held by, theCorporation ;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close currentsavings and deposit accounts in any bank ;

(e)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation in such manner asthe Board may think fit ;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditions affectingany movable or immovable property ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation ; and

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka for the purposes ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act, be administered by a Board ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)consisting of the office bearers and such other persons asmay be provided for in the rules made under section 8, andelected in accordance therewith.

(2)The first Board of the Corporation shall consist ofthe members of the Board of Management of the Societyholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.f

4Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2008

6.(1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a registerin which every person who on the date of commencement ofthis Act, is a member of the Corporation, and thereafter onlya person admitted a member of the Corporation shall haveinscribed in such register his name.

(2)The register shall contain the followingparticulars :—

(a)name, address and occupation of the each memberof the Corporation ;

(b)the date on which the name of the member wasinscribed in the register ;

(c)the date on which any person ceased to be a member.

7.Cancellation of membership may cause due to one ofthe following reasons :—

(a)at the death of the member ;

(b)resignation ;

(c)mental disorder ;

(d)violation of any rules.

8.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any General Meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office bearers, the resignationfrom , or vacation of, or removal from, office of officebearers, and their powers, conduct and duties ;

Register ofmembers.

Cancellation ofmembership.

Rules of theCorporation.

Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20085

(c)the election of the members of the Board and theirpowers, conduct and duties, and the terms of officeof members of the Board :

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum thereof and the conduct of business thereat ;

(f)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3)The members of the Corporation shall be subject torules of the Corporation.

9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,donation, subscription, fees or grants for and on account ofthe Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theCorporation in one or more banks as the Board ofManagement shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the funds, any expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, perfomance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to, the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts due byand payable totheFoundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

6Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2008

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts, to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 8 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theChairman and the Honorary Secretary or the HonoraryTreasurer who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence, and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

Accounts andAudit.

Corporation,may holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20087

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other Association orAssociations having objects similar to those of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules there ofprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such Association or Associations shallbe determined by the Board at, or immediately before, thedissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

8Sri Saranankara Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2008

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.