Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003

[Certified on 20th March, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (HEARING ANDDETERMINATION OF PROCEEDING)(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 13 OF 2003

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20031

[Certified on 20th March, 2003]

L.D.—O. 53/2002

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS HEARING AND

DETERMINATION OF APPLICATIONS AND REFERENCES MADE UNDER

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT AND THE TERMINATION OFEMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT; TO AMEND

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT AND THE TERMINATION OFEMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure an expeditiousdisposal of applications and references made under theIndustrial Disputes Act and the Termination of Employmentof Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, in order that parties tosuch applications and references may be able to obtaindecisions in respect of the same within a short period of time :

AND WHEREAS to facilitate such expeditious disposal it isconsidered desirable to stipulate time frames in respect of theprocedure adopted in the determination of applications madeto labour tribunals and the Commissioner and references madeto an arbitrator, and in respect of the hearing and deciding ofappeals lodged against orders made on such applications :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes (Hearingand Determination of Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act,No. 13 of 2003, and shall come into operation on such date asthe Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

DETERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS BEFORE LABOUR TRIBUNALS

2. (1) Upon receipt by a labour tribunal of an applicationunder section 31B of the Industrial Disputes Act, it shall bethe duty of the Assistant Secretary of such labour tribunal, ifsuch application is in due form, to forthwith and in any event

2—H 016856—5,600 (2002/10)

AssistantSecretary toforward copy ofapplication to theemployer &c.,

Short title anddate of operation.

Preamble.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20032

within three working days of the date of receipt of suchapplication, to forward a copy thereof to the employer inrespect of whom such application is made, and shall by writtennotice require him to transmit within a period of twenty onedays of receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate, settingout his answer to the matter to which the application relates.It shall be the duty of the employer to transmit the statementrequired in duplicate to the Assistant Secretary within thestipulated period.

(2)Within three working days of the date of receipt ofthe statement referred to in subsection (1), it shall be the dutyof the Assistant Secretary to forward a copy of the statementto the applicant and shall by written notice require theapplicant to transmit to him within a period of twentyone daysof receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate setting outthe applicant’s reply thereto. It shall be the duty of theapplicant to transmit the statement required in duplicate tothe Assistant Secretary within the stipulated period.

(3)It shall be the duty of a labour tribunal not to permitany extension of the periods referred to in subsection (1) and(2), except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by thetribunal.

(4)On receipt of the statement transmitted by theapplicant under subsection (2), it shall be the duty of the labourtribunal to forthwith and in any event not later than threeworking days after such date of receipt, to fix the applicationfor hearing and by a notice, inform all parties to the applicationof such date.

(5)Where the employer or the applicant as the case maybe, fails to transmit the statement required under subsection(1) or (2), it shall be the duty of the labour tribunal to forthwithand in any event not later than three working days after thedate of such default, to fix the application for hearing andinform by notice all parties to the application of such date.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20033

Tribunal toproceed in theabsence of anyparty.

3.Where without sufficient cause being shown, a partyto an application before a labour tribunal fails to attend or isnot represented at any hearing of such tribunal, the tribunalmay proceed with the hearing and determination of the matter,notwithstanding the absence of such party or anyrepresentative of such party.

4.Notwithstanding anything in any written law to thecontrary, where an application made to a labour tribunal isfixed for hearing and notice has been given to the parties tosuch application, the labour tribunal shall proceed to hear suchapplication from day to day until its conclusion, and shallnot, except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by suchtribunal, permit any postponement of such hearing.

5. (1) It shall be the duty of a labour tribunal to whom anapplication is made, to make all such inquiries into thatapplication and hear all such evidence as the tribunal mayconsider necessary, and thereafter make such order as mayappear to the tribunal to be just and equitable, and such ordershall be made not later than four months from the date of themaking of such application.

(2)The order made under subsection (1) shall bedelivered openly in the tribunal.

(3)Notice of the date on which an order under subsection(1) is to be made shall be given by the Assistant Secretary ofthe tribunal to all the parties to the application.

(4)Save as provided for in section 31D of the IndustrialDisputes Act, an order made by a labour tribunal shall not becalled in question in any court.

6.(1) A petition of appeal made under section 31D ofthe Industrial Disputes Act against an order made by a labourtribunal, shall be filed within a period of thirty days (includingthe day on which the order appealed from was made, butexcluding Sundays and Public Holidays) of the date of themaking of the order from which the appeal is preferred.

Filing, hearingand decision onappeals orapplications inrevision madeunder section 31Dof the IndustrialDisputes Act.

Powers and dutiesof labour tribunalsin regard toapplications.

Postponement ofhearing notpermitted.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20034

(2)An appeal preferred or an application in revisionmade under section 31D of the Industrial Disputes Act againstany order of a labour tribunal, shall be heard and decidedwithin four months of the date on which such appeal orapplication was filed.

7. (1) Where an application is made to the Court ofAppeal under subsection (4) of section 31D of the IndustrialDisputes Act, for the issue of an order in the nature of a writof certiorari, prohibition, procedendo or mandamus, againstthe President of a labour tribunal in respect of an order madeby such President, the Court of Appeal shall hear and decidesuch application within four months of the date on which suchapplication is made to the Court of Appeal.

(2)An appeal preferred to the Supreme Court against anorder made by the Court of Appeal on any application referredto in subsection (1), shall be made within one month of thedate on which such order is made and the Supreme Courtshall hear and determine such appeal within four months ofthe date on which such appeal is filed in the Supreme Court.

8.An appeal made to the Supreme Court under section31DD of the Industrial Disputes Act from an order of a HighCourt established under Article 154P of the Constitution, shallbe heard and decided within four months of the date on whichsuch appeal is filed in the Supreme Court.

9.The provisions of the Evidence Ordinance shall notapply to the conduct of proceedings before a labour tribunalunder this Act.

10.The service on any person of a notice, application orother document issued under this Act, shall be effected byhand or by registered post or by affixing such notice,application or other document at the entrance of the last knownplace of residence of such person.

Decision onappeals made tothe SupremeCourt undersection 31DD.

EvidenceOrdinance not toapply.

Serving of notice,application &c.,under this Act.

Application forwrit made undersection 31D andappeal from anyorder made onsuch applicationto the SupremeCourt to be heardand decidedwithin fourmonths.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20035

DETERMINATION OF APPLICATIONS MADE UNDER THE TERMINATION

OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT

11.In the exercise of his powers under section 2 of theTermination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)Act, to grant or refuse approval to an employer to terminatethe scheduled employment of any workman, it shall be theduty of the Commissioner to make his order within twomonths of the date of receipt of the application from theemployer.

12.Where an application is made to the Commissionerby a workman for an order under section 6 of the Terminationof Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, it shallbe the duty of the Commissioner to make such order withintwo months of the date of receipt of the application from theworkman.

13.It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to make hisorder under subsection (1) of section 6A of the Terminationof Employment of Workman (Special Provisions) Act, relatingto the payment of compensation to a workman, within twomonths of the date of receipt of the application from theworkman.

DETERMINATION OF REFERENCES MADE TO AN ARBITRATOR

14.Where an industrial dispute has been referred underparagraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 or subsection (1)of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act to an arbitrator forsettlement, it shall be the duty of such arbitrator to make hisaward under section 17 of that Act, within three months ofthe date of the making of such reference :

Order undersection 2 of theTermination ofEmployment ofworkmen (SpecialProvisions) Act, tobe made withintwo months ofapplication.

Order undersection 6 of theTermination ofEmployment ofWorkmen(SpecialProvisions) Act,to be madewithin twomonths ofapplication.

Order undersection 6A of theTermination ofEmployment ofWorkmen (SpecialProvisions) Act, tobe made withintwo months ofapplication.

An arbitrator tomake an award inrespect of areference underthe IndustrialDisputes Act,within threemonths ofreference.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20036

Provided however that it shall be lawful for the arbitratorto make his award at any time within a further period of twomonths, if he is of the opinion that in the interests of aneffective settlement of the dispute such further period isrequired in which event he shall record the reasons therefor.”

APPLICATIONS MADE TO INTERPRET AWARDS OR ORDERS UNDERINDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT

15.A reference under section 34 of the IndustrialDisputes Act relating to the interpretation of any award ororder made by an arbitrator, labour tribunal or an IndustrialCourt as the case may be, may be made within one month ofthe date of the making of such award or order, and it shall bethe duty of the arbitrator, labour tribunal or the Industrial Courtas the case may be, to which such reference is being made, tohear and determine such reference within one month of thedate of receipt of such reference.

DETERMINATION OF PENDING ACTION

16. (1) Where on the date of the coming into operationof this Act, any application made to a labour tribunal undersection 31B of the Industrial Disputes Act, is pending beforesuch tribunal, it shall be the duty of the tribunal to make allsuch inquiries into such application and hear all such evidenceas it may consider necessary, and make, not later than fourmonths from the date of the coming into operation of thisAct, such order as may appear to the tribunal to be just andequitable.

(2)Where on the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act, any proceedings under sections 2, 6 or 6A of theTermination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)Act, is pending before the Commissioner, it shall be the dutyof the Commissioner to make his order under those sectionsas relates to such proceedings, not later than one month fromthe date of the coming into operation of this Act.

Reference undersection 34 of theIndustrialDisputes Act to bemade within onemonth of the orderor award.

Pendingproceedings.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20037

(3) Where on the date of coming into operation of thisAct, any inquiry is pending before an arbitrator on a referencemade under paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 orsubsection (1) of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act, itshall be the duty of such arbitrator to make his award on suchreference not later than two months from the date of cominginto operation of this Act.

17.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“Commissioner” shall have the same meaning as in theIndustrial Disputes Act ;

“Industrial Disputes Act” means the Industrial DisputesAct, (Chapter. 131);

industrial dispute” shall have the same meaning as inthe Industrial Disputes Act ;

“labour tribunal” means a labour tribunal establishedunder section 31A of the Industrial Disputes Act ;

“scheduled employment” and “workmen” shall havethe same meaning as in the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions)Act ; and

“Termination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) Act” means the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act,No. 45 of 1971.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination ofProceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 20038

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.