PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

HAMPTON VILLAGE SRI LANKA TRUST(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 3 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 2010

1Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

[Certified on 09th February, 2010]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 21/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HAMPTON VILLAGE SRI LANKA TRUST

WHEREAS a Trust called and known as “The Relief FundHampton Sri Lanka Trust” has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose, inter alia, of constructing modelvillage to be named as the “Hampton Village- Sri Lanka” forthe Tsunami victims in Sri Lanka in the District of Galleaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said Trust hasapplied for the incorporation of the said Trust and it will beto the public advantage to Grant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1.This Act may be cited as the HamptonVillage Sri Lanka Trust (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as are now members of “The ReliefFund Hampton Sri Lanka Trust” (hereinafter referred to as“The Relief Fund Hampton Sri Lanka Trust”) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constitutedshall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession and a common sealunder the name and style of The Hompton Village Sri LankaTrust and by that name may sue and be sued, with full powerand authority to have and to use a common seal and to alterthe same at its pleasure.

3.The General Objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to construct a model Village named HamptonVillage-Sri Lanka consisting of fifty houses, a

Preamble.

Short Title.

Incorporation ofthe HamptonVillage Sri LankaTrust.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

community centre including a play ground, placeof worship, facilities for the sale of necessaries andgroceries and other buildings or structures that maybe required for the said village;

(b)to take all necessary measures for the maintenance,improvement and management of the said village;

(c)to promote cultural relationships between theresidents of Hampton Village Sri Lanka and theresidents in Hampden Middlesex, England;

(d)to advance the education and training of studentsand yong persons in particular of those residents inthe Village;

(e)to promote the economic, social and culturaladvancement, in particular of those residents in theVillage.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subjects tothe rules of the Corporation to be made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred toas the “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairmanand other office bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of theBoard of Trustees of the Relief Fund Hampton Sri LankaTrust on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) The members of the Board shall act purely in anhonorary capacity and shall not be entitled to receive anyremuneration by way of salary, allowance or honorarium,but shall be re-imbursed for expenses actually incured bythem in the performance of their duties.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

(4) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing in office as amember of the Board, if he :—

(a)is a person who having been declared an insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka, orany other country, is an undercharged insolvent orbankrupt;

(b)is convicted of an offence involving moralturpitude;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka found ordeclared to be of unsound mind or mentallydeficient;

(d)is absent from Sri Lanka for a continuous periodexceeding one year without perviously obtainingthe consent of the Board; or

(e)neglects or fails to act as a Director.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to:—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate ordispose of any immovable property for the purposeof the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the Corporation, all such contractsor agreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

General powersof theCorporation.

4Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current depositsand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the pusposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or other written law on all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)the classification of members and membershipand the admission, withdrawal or expulsion ofmembers ;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation from,vaction of, or removel from office and their powersand duties ;

(c)the election of members to the Board and its powersconduct and duties ;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed at meetings of theBoard or the summoning and holding of meetingsof the Board, the time, places, notices and agenda

Rules of theCorporation.

5Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

of such meetings and the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determined by the Board.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

8.(1)The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Board.

(4)In this section“qualified auditor” means-

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka, or of any other institute

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

6Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(b)a firm of accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretay of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Relief Fund HamptonSri Lanka Trust existing on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall be paid by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Relief Fund Hampton Sri LankaTrust on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurpose of this Act.

11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12. The moneys and property of the Corporationhowsoever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to themembers of the Corporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Limitation ofLiabilitiy ofmembers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Trust.

7Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of, the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other association orassociations having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is, or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distributing any income or profit among itsor their members. Such association or associations shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepubilc andothers.

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

8Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.