PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LAKSHMAN WASANTHA PERERACOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 24 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 9.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 2014

1Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

2—PL 006818—2000 (12/2012)

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc) 1/2013.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LAKSHMAN WASANTHA PERERACOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community DevelopmentFoundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for thepurpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transactingall matters connected with the said Foundation according tothe rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act, may be cited as the Lakshman WasanthaPerera Community Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community DevelopmentFoundation” (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation") orshall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “LakshmanWasantha Perera Community Development Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authorityto have, and use a common seal and to alter the same atits pleasure.

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe LakshmanWasantha PereraCommunityDevelopmentFoundation.

Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

2

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registraion and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)to provide aid and assistance to needy students tofurther their education;

(b)to collect, print, publish and distribute books,journals and magazines;

(c)to assist the relevent authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities—

(i)to execute randoad development and housingprogrammes;

(ii)to construct and develop hospitals, aestheticeducational centers, schools and communitycenters;

(iii)to establish and maintain libraries andreading centers;

(iv)to formulate and implement communitywelfare, educational and social developmentprojects for the welfare of the Sri Lankans;

(v)to provide facilities for the improvement ofeducational, health, cultural and agriculturalsectors in Sri Lanka;

(vi)to promote the various forms of traditional,indigenuos and hereditary knowledge and toassist to establish institutions with a view ofpreserving such knowledge for futuregenerations;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

(vii)to formulate and maintain projects for theprotection and conservation of theenvironment; and

(d)to liaise with other local or foreign institutionshaving similar objects.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any one of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to other provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Administration of the foundationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall function as the Board ofthe Corporation until the first Board is appointed or electedin the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

4

period of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower:—

(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the pruposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternealResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c) to open, operate maintain and close accounts inany bank;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful turst or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects of theCorproation;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

Rules of theCorporation.

Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

6

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorpration and the accomplishment of its' objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

Register ofmembers.

7Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe council of such Institute.

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

8

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of theactivities of the Corproation for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of social services and to the Registrarof Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed underthe Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registrationand Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expirationof six months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable tothe Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testementary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof, the same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporaton howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Annual Report.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

9Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

15.(1)The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as awitness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by theBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its or members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic and of any body politic orcorporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of theRights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Lakshman Wasantha Perera CommunityDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2014

10

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.