PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CANCER RESEARCH FOUNDATION OFSRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 67 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th November, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 20, 2009

1Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

Short title .

[Certified on 17th November, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 3/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CANCER RESEARCH FOUNDATION OFSRI LANKA

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “CancerResearch Foundation of Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the Board of Management of the saidFoundation has heretofore successfully carried out andtransacted the several objects and matters for which the saidFoundation was established, and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Cancer ResearchFoundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.67of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theCancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued and shall have full power andauthority to have and to use a common seal and to alter thesame at its discretion

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe CancerResearchFoundation ofSri Lanka.

2Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to accept ethically approved research proposals ononcology from clinicians practicing in Sri Lankaand to promote and fund such researches under theguidance and observations of the Board ofManagement;

(b)to grant financial support to persons or organizationsinvolved in cancer research in Sri Lanka to carry outresearches; and

(c)to grant financial assistance to cancer patients whoare in need of such assistance.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules to be made under section 6,be administered by a Board of Management consisting ofthe Chairman and not less than four members of theCorporation who shall have qualifications and experiance inthe field of medicine or science.

(2)The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a)utilize the funds belonging to the Corporation inorder to achieve the objects of the Corporation, in amanner determined by the Board of Management;

(b)open, maintain and close bank accounts in any bankor banks as may be determined by the Board ofManagement;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

3Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

(c)employ and dismiss officers and servants requiredfor the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation ; and

(d)do all other acts and things as are incidental orconducive to the attainment and furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any General Meeting or at a Special General Meetingto make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct or any other written law for all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a)the election of the office bearers, their term of office,resignation from, or vacation of, or removal fromoffice and their powers and duties;

(b)the election and the terms of office of members ofthe Board of Management other than the officebearers, and the powers and duties of the Board ofManagement;

(c)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts;

(d)the procedure to be followed at any meeting of theBoard of Management and the quorum therefor andthe conduct of business thereat; and

(e)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as laid down in subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

4Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty both movable and immovable by way of purchase,grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation withfull power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and allmonies heretofore received or hereafter to be received byway of gift, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution orgrants on behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to thecredit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks asthe Board of Management may determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.(1) Any expenses incurred by the Corporation in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against the Corporationbefore any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of theCorporation and any costs paid or recovered by theCorporation in any such suit or prosecution shall be creditedto the Fund of the Corporation.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any member, officer or anyservant of the Corporation in any suit or prosecution broughtby or against such person before any court in respect of anyact or omission which is done or purported to be done bysuch person in good faith for the purpose of carrying out theprovisions of this Act shall, if the court holds that such Act or

Corporation mayhold movableand immovableproperty.

The Fund of theCorporation.

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund.

5Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

omission was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund ofthe Corporation, unless such expenses are recovered by himin such suit or prosecution.

10.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Board of Management.

(3) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor ”means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of the Chairman andtwo members of the Corporation as may be decided by theBoard of Management, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains any property after the satisfaction of all debts andliabilities, any property whatsoever shall not be distributedamong members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransmitted to some other institution or institutions having

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Audit ofaccounts.

6Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is orare by its rules prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its or their members. Such institution orinstitutions may be determined by the Board of Managementon or before the dissolution of the Corporation.

13. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therighs of theRepublic andothers.

7Cancer Research Foundation of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 67 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.