PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA SOCIETY FOR THEPREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 52 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2009

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20091

2—PL 003825—3,090 (2009/04)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 26/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA SOCIETY FOR THEPREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “Sri LankaSociety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals” hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Society:

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant suchapplication:

BE it, therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Incorporation) Act,No. 52 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members ofthe Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Cruelty toAnimals (hereinafter referred to as the “Society”) and suchother persons as shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate( hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “Sri LankaSociety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals” and by thatname may sue and be sued, with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Incorporation ofSri LankaSociety for thePrevention ofCruelty toAnimals.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20092

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are declared to be—

(a)to create awareness among people on the need toprotect animals;

(b)to educate people on the need to refrain fromneglecting or inflicting unnecessary pain or sufferingto animals;

(c)to take steps to preserve the fauna and create anawareness among the people of the importance ofpreserving the same;

(d)to create better environments for domestic animalsand to provide them with security;

(e)to provide indoor and outdoor medical treatmentfor sick animals; and

(f)to pursuade the public to show love and kindness toanimals.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to recive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kindwhether from local or foreign sources;

(b)to open, maintain, operate and close bank accountsand to borrow or raise money with or withoutsecurity;

(c)to invest moneys belonging to the Corporation insuch securities as may be determined by theExecutive Committee;

(d)to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss, such officersand servants as may be necessary for the purpose ofcarrying out the objects of the Corporation;

General objectsof theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20093

(e)to co-operate and associate with other associations,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation;

(f)to promote, organize and hold exhibitions, lectures,seminars, workshops, conferences and tours for thefurtherance of the objects of the Corporation; and

(g)to do all such other acts and things as are incidentalor conducive to the carrying out of the objects ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules made under section 7, be administered by an ExecutiveCommittee consisting of the Patrons, President, two VicePresidents, General Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer,Members of the Board of Trustees and not less than twelveother members as may be provided for in such rules andelected in accordance therewith.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Society holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act who shall hold the office until a new ExecutiveCommittee is appointed under the rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) There shall be a Board of Trustees who shall beentrusted with the management of the property of theCorporation.

(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall bethe Board of Trustees of the Society holding office on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act whoshall hold the office until a new Board of Trustees is appointedunder the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two- thirds of the members present and voting, to make

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Board ofTrustees.

Rules of theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20094

rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of or removal from, office of office-bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c)the election of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee and its powers, conduct and duties andthe terms of office of such members;

(d)the election of the trustees of the Board of Trusteesand its powers, conduct and duties and the terms ofoffice of such trustees;

(e)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(f)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the ExecutiveCommittee and the Board of Trustees, the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefore and the conduct of businessthereat;

(g)the custody of the funds of the Corporation and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(h)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule may be made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20095

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations, contributions of fees shall be depositedin the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as maybe decided by the Executive Committee.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in theexercise of the powers of the Corporation shall be paid out ofthe fund.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto the Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Executive Committee shall cause proper accountsto be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute of

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20096

Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by any one ofsuch institutes.

11.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 7 and it shall have full powers to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident and the General Secretary or the Treasurer, whoshall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Such Instituteor Institutes shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the dissolution of theCorporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body, politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sri Lanka Society for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.