PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RAMAKRISHNA SARADA MISSION(LANKA BRANCH) (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 1 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th January, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 20, 2012

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20121

[Certified on 17th January, 2012]

L.D.—O. Inc.(18/2010)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE RAMAKRISHNA SARADA MISSION

(LANKA BRANCH)

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “RamakrishnaSarada Mission (Lanka Branch)” has heretofore been formed,and registered in Sri Lanka under the provisions of SocietiesOrdinance (Chapter 123) for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Society according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and itwill be for the public advantage to grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Ramakrishna SaradaMission (Lanka Branch) (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style ofthe “Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)” andby that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

2—PL 005069—3,090 (07/2010)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe RamakrishnaSarada Mission(Lanka Branch).

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20122

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to impart and promote the study of Hinduism andall its scriptures and the teaching of Sri RamakrishnaParamahamsa, Sri Sarada Devi and SwamiVivekananda within the Hindu community;

(b)to promote the study of comparative theology inits widest form and assist in bringing about theharmony of all religions;

(c)to promote, encourage and assist the religious,educational, social and cultural advancement ofHindu women and children;

(d)to establish, maintain and manage religious andeducational institutions, orphanages, laboratories,hospitals, dispensaries and other charitableinstitutions for the Hindu community;

(e)to train the teachers who are in the Hindu religiousinstitutions and carry on educational activitiesamong the masses in all the branches of knowledge;

(f)to publish through print or electronic media anddistribute books, journals, periodicals andmagazines which the Corporation may considerdesirable for the promotion and advancement of itsobjects;

(g)to conduct and sponsor conferences, lectures,seminars, workshops and group studies within oroutside Sri Lanka for Hindu religious personnel forthe purpose of achieving the objects of theCorporation; and

(h)to collaborate for the betterment of the HinduCommunity with any other institutions ororganizations, whether foreign or local, havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20123

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjects tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Executive Committee (hereinafter referredto as the “Committee”) consisting of the President andSecretary who shall be nominated by the Governing Bodyof the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission, Dakshineswar, Kolkata,Vice President and other office bearers elected or appointedin accordance with the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6.

(2) The person holding the post of the President forthe time being of the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission,Dakshineswar, Kolkata shall be the Patron of the Corporation.

(3) The first Committee shall consist of the members ofthe Executive Committee holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyone ofthem including the power to:—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortagage, pledge, sell, exchange or otherwisealienate, encumber or dispose of any immovableproperty for the purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

General Powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20124

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law on all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vaction of, or removal from office of, office bearersand their powers and duties;

(c)the election of members of the committee and itspowers conduct and duties;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed or the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation andthe Committee, the time, places, notices and agendaof such meetings and the quorum therefor and theconduct of business thereat; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the costody of its funds.

Rules of theCorporation.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20125

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contrbutions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determined by the Committee.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

8.(1)The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor appointed by the Committee.

(4)In this section“qualified auditor” means-

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka, or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(b)a firm of accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of

Audit andAccounts .

Fund of theCorporation.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20126

Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretay of the Corporation or such other perosn dulyauthorized by the Committee who shall sign their names onthe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theSociety on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporationor for any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12. The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation and

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20127

subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of, the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other association orassociations having objects, similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is, or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distributing any income or profit among itsor their members. Such association or associations shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic and of anybody politic orcorporate.

16.(1) All contracts, agreements, certificates or otherinstruments or documents whatsoever made, issued or executedprior to the date of commencement of this Act, by or in favourof the Society shall be deemed from and after the date ofcommencement of this Act, to be and to have been made,issued or executed by or in favour of the Corporation.

(2) All suits, actions, appeals and any other legalproceedings instituted by or against the Society and pendingimmediately prior to the date of the commencement of thisAct, shall not abated or be discontinued and may be continuedor enforced by or against the Corporation.

(3) All property movable and immovable, which has beenvested in, or legally purchased or acquired by, or leased to,or placed at the disposal of, or in any other manner transferredto the Society or which is held in trust for the Society, is inits possession or control on the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be held by or in trust for the Corporation

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Savings.

Savings of theRights of theRepublic andothers.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20128

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

established under this Act, subject to the trusts, charges,liabilities, reservations, servitudes or other encumbrancesand on the terms and conditions appertaining, attaching orapplicable thereto at that date.

(4) All the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Societyother than the rights, liabilities and obligations referred toin subsection (1) on the day immediately prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rights,liabilities and obligations of the Corporation.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)

(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20129

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.