PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 24th July, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SOCIETY OF STRUCTURAL ENGINEERSOF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 40 OF 2009

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20091

Short title.

[Certified on 24th July, 2009]

L. D.—O. INC. 32/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SOCIETY OF STRUCTURALENGINEERS OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a society called and known as the “Society ofStructural Engineers of Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectualy carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said Society according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Society of StructuralEngineers of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009.

2.From and after date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Societyof Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred toto as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted membersof the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a bodycorporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) withperpetual succession under the name and style of the “Societyof Structural Engeneers of Sri Lanka”, and by that name maysue and be sued and have full power and authority to haveand use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote and advance the science and practice ofStructural Engineering in specified areas such asbuildings, bridges, towers, foundations and stadiums;

Preamble.

Incorporation ofSociety ofStructuralEngineers of SriLanka.

General objects ofthe Corporation.

2Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009

(b)to organize and arrange seminars, lectures,exhibitions, symposiam and discussions in relationto Structural Engineering;

(c)to maintain libraries and publishing of papers andbooks about Structural Engineering;

(d)to encourage research with a view to promotingprofessional knowledge of Structural Engineering;

(e)to formulate appropriate standards for qualificationsof membership of Structural Engineers and toconduct examinations and interviews and to grantcertificates in relation to Structural Engineering;

(f)to regulate the professional activities of the membersand to assist them in mainatining standards ofprofessional conduct of Structural Engineers;

(g)to encourage and assist in the settlement of disputesof Structural Engineering by arbitration and tonominate arbitrators.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to advance, borrow or raise money for the purposesof the Corporation in such manner and upon suchsecurity as the Corporation may think fit;

(b)to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy,sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissorynotes and other negotiable instruments and to open,act, maintain and close bank accounts in Sri Lankaand elsewhere;

(c)to enter into and perfom or carry out all suchagreements or contracts with any person or body of

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20093

persons in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka as may benecessary for the attainment of the objects or theexercise of the powers of the Corporation;

(d)to undertake, accept, execute, perfom and administerany trusts which may directly or indirectly beconducive to the accomplishment of all or any ofthe objects of the Corporation;

(e)to invest all moneys of the Corporation which arenot immediately required for the purpose of carryingout the objects of the Corporation in securities ofthe Government of Sri Lanka or in any other fromof investment;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances, pensions andgratuities as may be determined by the Executivecommittee of the Corporation;

(g)to affiliate with any Organization, Associaiton or anyother Institution in Sri Lanka or outside whoseobjects are similar to that of the Corporation;

(h)to appoint sub committees.

5.The management, control and administration of theCorporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act andrules of the Corporation made under section 6, vest in anExecutive Committee. The members of the Society holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date of the cominginto operation of this Act shall be the office bearers of thefirst Executive Committee until office bearers are chosen inaccordance with rules made under this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time, at any annual general meeting or at any generalmeeting and by a majority of not less than two-third of the

Rules of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009

members present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act or any other written law, forall or any of the following matters:—

(a)elegibility, qualifications and admission of members,classification of membership and fees payable bymembers, cessation of membership, expulsion orresignation;

(b)election of the members to the Executive Committeeof the Corporation, resignation from, vacation of orremoval from office as office bearers and powers,duties and conduct of the Committee and theExecutive Committee;

(c)appointment, dismissal, powers, duties, funcitonsand conduct of the various employees of theCorporation;

(d)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Executive Committeeof the Corporation or any disciplinary committeethereof, filling of vacancies, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum therefor and the conductof business thereat;

(e)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand the dissolution of the Corporation; and

(f)administration and management of the property ofthe Corporation.

(2) The rules made by the Coporation under subsection(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner as a rule made undersubsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20095

7.(1) Every member of the Society who is qualifiedunder the rules made under the Act shall have the right to useabbreviated designation “M.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name toindicate that he is a Member.

(2) Every member of the Society who is registered as aFellow Member shall have the right to use the abbreviateddesignation “F.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name to indicate thathe is a Fellow Member.

(3) Every member of the society who is registered as aHonorary Fellow shall have the right to use the abbreviateddesignation “Hon. F.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name to indicatethat he is a Honorary Member.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited to thecredit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks asmay be decided by the Executive Committee of theCorporation.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functionsand duties of the Corporation shall be paid out of the fund ofthe Corporation.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, gift, grantor testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporaiton for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6, with full power to sell, mortgage or lease, exchangeor otherwise dispose of the same.

10.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by himto the Corporation.

Use of titles.

Funds of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Limitation ofliabiltiy ofmembers.

6Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009

11.All debts and liabilties of the Society existing on theday precding the date of commencement of this Act shall bedeemed to be debts and liabilities of the Corporation and shallbe paid by the Corporation and all debts due to, andsubscriptions and contributions payable to the Society on suchday shall be paid to the Corporation.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to some other institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is orare by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its or their members. Such institution orinstitutions may be determined by the Executive Committeeof the Corporation on or before the dissolution of theCorporation.

13.Any expenses incurred by any person in any actionor prosecution instituted against him in respect of any actwhich is done by him under this Act or on the direciton of theCorporation shall be paid by the Corporation if the court holdsthat act was done in good faith.

14.(1) The Executive Committee shall cause properbooks of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure,assets and liabilities and all other transactions of theCorporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by one or more qualifiedautitor or auditors.

(3) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Debts due by andpayable to theSociety.

Audits ofaccounts.

Expenses incurredby any person tobe paid by theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution of theCorporation.

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20097

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

15.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsover, except in the presence of thepersons duly authorized by Executive Committee who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

16.The Corporation shall have power to appointDisciplinary committees and to take such other steps as maybe necessary from time to time for the control of professionalstandards and for the maintenance of discipline among themembers of the Corporation.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Disciplinarycommittees.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of the Stateand others.

8Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENTINFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.