PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CENTRAL CEYLON MUSLIM LADIES’ UNION(INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 57 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th November, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 2007

1Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007

Preamble.

2—PL 002404—3,300 (08/2007)

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe CentralCeylon MuslimLadies’ Union.

[Certified on 16th November, 2007]

L.D.—O. Inc 19/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CENTRAL CEYLONMUSLIM LADIES’ UNION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union” has heretoforebeen established in Kandy for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it has been established and hasapplied to be incorporated and it will be for the publicadvantage to grant such application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Central Ceylon MuslimLadies’ Union (Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of Commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of thesaid Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union (hereinafterreferred to as “the Union”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shallbe a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “theCorporation”) with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union”and by that name may sue and be sued with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal and to alterthe same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects of the Corporation are herebydeclared to be—

(a)to construct, equip and maintain a building as theheadquaters ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

(b)to conduct Quranic Classes for young Muslimchildren ;

(c)to commence Vocational Training Projects for theschool leavers of the Muslim faith ;

(d)to create awareness on Social Service towardselderly and orphaned poor Muslims ;

(e)to identify vital community needs to providemarriage counseling services to the communityand also facilitate the conduct of marriages forthe needy Muslims ;

(f)to establish and maintain a library and arecreational room in the headquarters, mainly forthe elderly Muslim ladies ;

(g)to establish and maintain an orphanage forMuslim girls ;

(h)to establish branches of the Union in various partsof the Central Province ;

(i)to conduct health camps and awarenessprogrammes for the achievment of the objects ofthe Act.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary of desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them, including the power to open, operate and closebank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or withoutsecurity, to invest in the funds of the Corporation, toconstruct any buildings on any land vested in or acquiredor held by the Corporation and engage, employ and dismissofficers and servants required for the carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and rules of the Corporationmade under section 6, be administered by a Committeeconsisting of the office-bearers and such other person asare elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

3Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007

(2) The first Committee shall consist of the members ofthe Union holding office at the time of coming into operationof this Act, and whose names are specified in the Schedule tothis Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation at anAnnual general meeting or at any meeting specially calledfor the purpose and by a majority of not less than two-thirdsof the number of members present and voting at such meetingto make rules in respect of all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a)the appointment and removal of the members andoffice bearers of the Corporation ;

(b)the procedure to be followed by the Corporationand the Committee generally in the transactionof business and in particular in the conduct ofmeetings ;

(c)the opening of Bank Accounts and the operation ofsuch accounts ;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the agents,employees and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)matters incidental to the carrying out of the aforesaidobjects.

(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended orrescinded in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and allmonies received by way of bequests, gifts, testamentarydispositions, grants, donations contributions or fees shall bedeposited in the name of the Corporation in one or morebanks as may be decided by the Committee.

(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act, shall be paid out of the Fund.

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

4Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007

8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aQualified Auditor. In this subsection “Qualified Auditor”has the same meaning in the Article 154 (8) of theConstitution.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Union existing at thetime of the coming into operation of this Act, shall be paid bythe Corporation hereby constituted, all debts due to andsubscriptions and contributions payable to the Union, shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be capable in law to take andhold any property, movable and immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation, with full powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise disposeof the same.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident or one of the Vice-Presidents and the Secretary orAssistant Secretary, who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the republic, or of any body politic or corporate,or of any other persons.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Accounts andAudit.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Debts due byand payable tothe union.

How seal of theCorporation is tobe affixed.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

5Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.