PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PINA ORGANISATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 25 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd May, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 06, 2011

1Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

Short title.

Preamble.

[Certified on 03rd May, 2011]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 8/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PINA ORGANISATION

WHEREAS an Organisation called and known as the “PinaOrganisation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka, forthe purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Organisationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Organisation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Pina Organisation(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2011.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “PinaOrganisation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Organisation”)or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafterreferred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual successionunder the name and style of the “Pina Organisation” and bythat name may sue and be sued, with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to donate modern hospital equipments to hospitals;

Incorporation ofthe PinaOrganisation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

(b)to encourage and assist students faced with financialdifficulties in pursuing higher education;

(c)to assist students of low income groups or studentswho have lost one or both parents, in pursuing highereducation;

(d)to provide relief to the poor and destitute who requireheart surgery, transplantation of kidney and cancersurgery and to provide assistance for treatments;

(e)to establish and maintain orphanages and homesfor the aged and to establish social welfare centersin accordance with such written laws as are for thetime being in force;

(f)to provide welfare facilities for the deaf, dumb andthe blind and disabled persons and to establishwelfare homes in accordance with such written lawsas are for the time being in force;

(g)to provide wheelchairs, crutches and spectacles forthe poor and destitute;

(h)to assist low income groups in the construction orcompletion of houses;

(i)to assist in the development of agriculture in ruralareas by providing agricultural machinery, tractors,hand tractors, lands and vehicles;

(j)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines and to establishand maintain libraries;

(k)to promote, organize and maintain exhibitions,discussions, workshops, debates and tours whichthe Corporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and achievement of its objects;

3Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

(l)to collaborate and work with other societies, ororganizations, having similar objects;

(m)to reduce and eliminate suicidal tendencies bymeans of community projects and education.

(2) In the implementaiton of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Governing Council shall ensure to thegreatest extent possible that such implementation shall becarried out without any distinction based on race, religion,language, caste, sex, political opinion or place of birth.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Governing Council (hereinafter referred toas the “Council”) consisting of the President, Vice Presidentsand other office-bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist ofthe members of the Governing Council holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to:—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into, perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

4Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

agreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporaiton may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law on all or any of thefollowing matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and theadminission, withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers and their powers and duties;

(c)the election of members of the Council and itspowers, conduct and duties;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

Rules of theCorporation.

5Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

(e)the procedure to be observed or the summoning andholding of meetings of the Council, the time, places,notices and agenda of such meetings and the quorumtherefore and the conduct of business thereat; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the Corporaiton in one or moreBanks as may be dtermined by the Council.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditutre, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Council.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any

Audit andAccount.

Fund of theCorporation.

6Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

other institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch institute; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretary of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Council who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the said Organisationexisting on the day preceding the date of the commencementof this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto the Organisation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purpose of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the corporation.

12.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as setforth herein and no portion thereof shall be paidor transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus,profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Organisation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

7Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty, movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation and whichis, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or profit among its or their members. Such associationor associations shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

15.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

8Pina Organisation (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.