PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THALIYAWAKA ANANDA BODHI CULTURALFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 63 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 30, 2009

Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 20091

[Certified on 30th October, 2009]

L.D.—O.Inc. 17/2007

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE THALIYAWAKA ANANDA BODHICULTURAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Badalgama Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation” has been established in Sri Lanka for thepurpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objectsand matters connected with the said Foundation accordingto the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully Carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which the said Foundation was created andhas applied to be incorporated and it will be for the publicadvantage to grant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the ThaliyawakaAnanda Bodhi Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 63 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement ofthis Act, such and so many persons as presently aremembers of the “Thaliyawaka Sri Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)and shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual successionunder the name and style of the “Thaliyawaka AnandaBodhi Cultural Foundation” and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have and to usea common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe ThaliyawakaAnanda BodhiCulturalFoundation.

Short title.

2Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to give assistance and aid in every respect for theconservation and development of historicalplaces of Buddhist religious importance and all therelevant ancient artifacts declared by or under lawmade by Parliament to be of national importance;

(b)to implement environmental friendly programmesfor and to implement training programmes to raiseawareness among the adherents of the Buddhist faithregarding the need to protect natural resourcesdeclared by or under law made by Parliament to beof national importance;

(c)to render assistance to economically disadvantagedfarmer families who are adherents of the Buddhistfaith in relation to the obatining of housing facilities;

(d)to supply materials needed for the restorationof Pre-Schools establishd for adherents of theBuddhist faith which find it difficult to functionand to encourage qualified teachers to engage ineducational activities in such pre-schools;

(e)to establish Vocational Training Centres for thebenefit of the unemployed youth among adherentsof the Buddhist faith;

(f)to develop religious centers in villages wherepeople of low income groups who are adherentsof the Buddhist faith are in the majority and to assistin promoting religious education among adherentsof the Buddhist faith;

(g)to implement community programmes for adherentsof the Buddhist faith for the protection of forestresources, to give assistance for community

General Objectsof theCorporation.

Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 20093

reforestation projects and programmes and tointroduce modern soil conservation methodsamong adherents of the Buddhist faith whileencouraging natural soil conservation methods toprevent reduction of soil fertility declared by or underlaw made by Parliament to be of nationalimportance; and

(h)to render assistance to promote local agriculture andfor restoring tanks and anicuts needed foragricultural purposes declared by or under law madeby Parliament to be of national importance.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to acquire and hold, purchase, rent, construct andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise money from Governmentapproved Banks and other institutions (foreignand local) for the purposes of the Corporation withthe approval of the Executive Committee;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such manner as theExecutive Committee may think fit;

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons;

Power of theCorporation toacquire property,invest funds, andraise loans etc.

4Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 2009

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditionsaffecting any real or personal property acquired orin the possession of the Corporation;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurpose of the Corporation; and

(j)to do all other things necessary or expedient for theproper and effective carrying out of the objects ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 8 for thetime being of the Corporation be administered by anExecutive Committee consisting of the Executive Director,President, Secretary, Treasurer, Vice President, Administrativeand Propaganda Secretary, Assistant Secretary and threeco-secretaries.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Executive Committee ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.The income and property of the Corporation shall beapplied solely towards the promotion of the objectives setforth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferrd,directly or indirectly by way of dividend, loan, bonus, profitor otherwise to the members of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of donation, testamentarydisposition, transfer, contributions or fees shall be depositedin the name of the Corporation in one or more Banks as theExecutive Committee shall determine.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Application ofincome andproperty of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 20095

(2) The Executive Committee may create anydepreciation fund, reserve or sinking fund for therehabilitation, improvement and development of the propertyof the Corporation.

(3)There shall be paid out of the fund, all such sums ofmoney as may be incurred as expenditure by the Corporationin the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act.

8.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any Meeting of the Corporation and by a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present and voting tomake rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law, for the following matters:—

(a)classification of membership and admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of, or removal from office ofoffice bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee, its powers, conduct and duties and theterms of office of members of the ExecutiveCommittee;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed at the summoningand holding of meetings of the ExecutiveCommittee and of the Council, the time, place,notice and agenda of such meeting, the quorumtherefor and the conduct of business thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

Rules of theCorporation.

6Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 2009

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4)In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property

The Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Audit andAccounts.

Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 20097

shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,and subject to the rules in force for the time being of theCorporation, it shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11.The Corporation shall be a non-profit organizationand no part of the gains, profit or dividends, if any, of theCorporation shall be distributed among the members of theCorporation.

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted, and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount due from such members as membershipfees.

14.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof such person as may be determined by the ExecutiveCommittee and it shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and anothermember of the Executive Committee who shall sign theirnames on the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

15. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation andwhich is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from

Seal of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Corporation tobe a non-profitorganization.

Propertyremaining upondissolution.

8Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 2009

distributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such institution or institutions shall be determinedby the Committee of Management at or immediately before,the dissolution of the Corporate.

16.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic orCorporation.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Thaliyawaka Ananda Bodhi CulturalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 63 of 20099

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.