Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

AIYENAYAKA DEVALA DEVELOPMENTMUDIYANSE TENNAKOON FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 20 OF 2003

[Certified on 21st July, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 2003

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2003

1

[Certified on 21st July, 2003]

L. D. — O. 32/2002

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AIYENAYAKA DEVALADEVELOPMENT MUDIYANSE TENNAKOON FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the‘Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse TennakoonFoundation’ has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for thepurpose of effectually carrying out the objects of the saidfoundation and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Aiyenayaka DevalaDevelopment Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2003.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theAiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse TennakoonFoundation (hereinafter referred to as the foundation) or shallhereafter be admitted members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the ‘Corporation’), with perpetual succession, under thename and style of the ‘Aiyenayaka Devala DevelopmentMudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation’ and by that name maysue, and be sued, in all courts, with full power and authorityto have, and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

2—H 015089—5,650 (2002/04)

Incorporation ofthe AiyenayakaDevalaDevelopmentMudiyanseTennakoonFoundation.

Short title.

Preamble.

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2003

2

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to preserve and develop the historic AiyenayakaDevalaya at Deduru Oya in Nikaweratiya;

(b)to practise the traditional forms of offerings andcustoms in respect of the Aiyenayaka Devala andAiyenayka God;

(c)to preserve the historic monuments and culturalartefacts in the sacred premises of the AiyenayakaDevalaya;

(d)to continue and foster the programme of national,cultural and religious rituals as well as theprogramme of sports and dancing. implemented in1958 ;

(e)to maintain and improve all the buildings, electricityand water supply and sanitary services at the sacredpremises of the Aiyenayaka Devalaya;

(f)to sponsor religious, cultural and social servicesapproved by the Corporation;

(g)to implement co-ordinated programmes through co-operation with whatever social service and religiousand cultural organizations in Sri Lanka and abroaddeemed necessary by the Corporation;

(h)to do all such other things as are incidental orconducive to the attainment of all or any of the obectsof the Corporation.

4.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or herafter to be recived by way of gift,request, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more state banks as theBoard of Management shall determine.

General Objectsof theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2003

3

(2)There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporationall sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise money with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employand dismiss, officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation.

6.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of theoffice bearers and such other persons as may be provided forin usch rules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) The First Board of management of the Corporationshall be the Board of management of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day prior to the date of commencement of thisAct.

7.(1) There It shall be lawful for the Corporation fromtime to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of notless than two-thirds of the members present and voting, tomake rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law for the admission, withdrawal,resignation, retirement or expulsion of members, for theelection of office bearers of the Board of management and ofthe various officers, agents and servants of the Corporation,for the procedure to be followed in the transaction of business,and otherwise generally for the management of the affairs ofthe Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects. Therules of the Corporation may be amended, altered, added to,or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner.

General powers ofthe Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2003

4

(2)The rules of the Foundation in force on the daypreceding the date of commencement of operation of this Actshall be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made underthis section in so far as they are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act.

(3) Members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shallbe paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all debtsdue to, subscriptions and contributions payable to, theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being,of the Corporation shall have full power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same. All land,immovable and movable property including buildings and allassets and rights held by the Foundation prior to thecommencement of this Act shall become vested in theCorporation incorporated by this Act.

10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Debts due by andpayable to theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2003

5

11.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other person except such as are mentioned in thisAct and those claiming by, from, or under, them

12.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.