PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FREE NURSERY AND WELFARE COMPLEX (INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 31 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th May, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 22, 2009

1Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

[Certified on 18th May, 2009]

L.D.—O. INC 27/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FREE NURSERY AND WELFARE COMPLEX

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “FreeNursery and Welfare Complex” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said association according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Free Nursery and WelfareComplex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theFree Nursery and Welfare Complex (hereinafter referred to asthe “Complex”) or shall hereafter be admitted members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of the“Free Nursery and Welfare Complex” (hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be suedin all Courts, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal, and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a) to encourage, assist and advice on self- employmentprojects ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Free Nurseryand WelfareComplex.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

(b) to assist children and adults by providing necessaryschools and educational institutes other thannational schools enumerated in Appendix III of List1 of the 9th Schedule to the Constitution, withaccessory, educational and library facilities ;

(c) to provide necessary financial assistance for thepromotion of arts, literature, construction of imagesand modelling, production of television Dramas,films and stage plays, in order to develop the interestand skills of members and non members ;

(d) to organize national and religious ceremonies and“Sramadanas”, for the development of mutualconfidence and goodwill among the people ;

(e) to develop ational and international relationshipsby exchanging experience and technical knowledgeand to organize excursions ;

(f) to collect economical and human resources for thepurpose of investigation and accumulation ofinformation ;

(g) to care for disabled persons and to provide homesfor the aged ;

(h) to protect the environment and to improve moderntechniques of organic agriculture ; and

(i) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe other provisions of this Act and the rules made undersection 8 of the Corporation, be administered by a Committeeof Management consisting of a President and six other officebearers to be elected in the manner provided for by the rulesof the Corporation.

Management of

the affairs of the

Corporation.

3Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

(2)The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the members of the Committeeof Management of the Complex holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

(3)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1), of this section, Ven. Banagala GunaratanaThero the founder President of the Complex shall be the firstPresident of the Corporation and shall be elegible for re-appointment for another term of office.

5.(1) The Committee of Management shall cause to bemaintained a register of members, in which the names of everyperson who was, on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, a member of the Complex andevery person who thereafter is duly admitted a member of theCorporation, shall be included.

(2)Every member whose name has been entered in theregister maintained under subsection (1), shall be required topay such amount, as annual membership fee as shall bedetermined by rules made in that behalf.

6.A member shall cease to be a member of theCorporation in any one of the following circumstances:—

(i) death of the member ;

(ii) leaving Sri Lanka permanently ;

(iii) resignation from membership ;

(iv) any mental or physical disorder which prevents amember from participating in the Corporationsactivities ;

(v) acting against the disciplinary rules of conduct formembers ; or

(vi) default in payment of membership fee for twoconsecutive years.

Register ofmembers andfees.

Cancellation ofMembership.

4Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

7. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a) purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation ;

(b) borrow or raise money from any Governmentapproved bank and other institutions (foreign andlocal) for the purposes of the Corporation with theapproval of the Committee of Management ;

(c) make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy,sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissorynotes and other negotiable instrument and to open,operate, maintain and close bank accounts ;

(d) invest funds not immediately required for thepurposes of the Corporation, in such a manner as theCommittee of Management may think fit ;

(e) solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(f) enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons ;

(g) undertake, accept, execute, perform and administerany lawful trusts and conditions affecting anyproperty ;

(h) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the, servicesof officers and servant of the Corporation and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation ;

(i) train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the purposesof the Corporation ; and

(j) do all such other acts or things as may be necessaryor conducive to the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

5Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

8.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time at any General Meeting of the Corporation and bya majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for thefollowing matters :—

(a) classification of membership, fees payable by eachclass of members, their admission, withdrawal,expulsion or resignation ;

(b) election of the members of the Committee ofManagement, vacation of or removal from office asoffice bearers, term of office of the office bearers andpowers, duties and functions of the Committee ofManagement ;

(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions ofvarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement, the Corporation or any sub committeethereof, filling of vacancies, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum therefor and the conductof business thereat ;

(e) the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Committee of Management andthe Corporation ;

(f) the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, and the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

6Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

(3)The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,subscriptions, and contributions, fees or grants on account ofthe Corporation shall be deposited in a bank or banksapproved by the Committee of Management to the credit ofthe Corporation.

(2)There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money,required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise of its powers and the performanceof its duties.

10.(a) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(b)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(c)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor.

(d)In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an indivdual who being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate topracticse as an Accountant issued by the Council ofsuch Institute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts.

7Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

11.All debts and liabilities of the Complex existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted, and all debts due to and subscription due andpayable to the Complex on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid to theCorporation hereby constituted.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. The membersof the Corporation shall determine such institution orinstitutions at the time of dissolution of the Corporation orprior its dissolution.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident, Secretary and one member duly authorized by theCorporation who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

15. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts &c,due by and tothe Complexpayable byand to theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

8Free Nursery and Welfare Complex (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.