PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LEO AND JOSEPHINE DE ALMEIDAMEMORIAL FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 17 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th May, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 11, 2007

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20071

[ Certified on 08th May, 2007]

L. D. OINC C 17/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LEO AND JOSEPHINE DE ALMEIDAMEMORIAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “Leo andJosephine De Almeida Memorial Foundation” has heretoforebeen formed in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Leo and Josephine De AlmeidaMemorial Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Actsuch and so many persons as presently are members of theLeo and Josephine De Almeida Memorial Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted member of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body Corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation”, and by that name may sue and be sued in allCourts, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to establish homes for the elders to provide care fordestitute or needy elders and to provide for their

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe Leo andJosephine DeAlmeidaMemorialFoundation.

General objects ofthe Corporation.

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20072

physical, mental and intellectual needs and also toprovide opportunities for them to participate insocial, religious and recreational activites,

(b)to provide and maintain homes for elders anddestitutes and hospitals to care for the sick, infirmand disabled;

(c)to render educational services and vocational trainingfor people ;

(d)to establish and maintain centres to help disabledpersons to lead a normal life as far as possible ;

(e)to otherwise render educational, social and othercharitable services ;

(f)to establish and maintain libraries with lending andreference facilities for students and to promote readinghabits in the adult population ;

(g)to provide scholarships for needy students who aresuccessful at public examinations ;

(h)to provide medical facilites, clothing and shelter forneedy orphans and the sick ;

(i)to provide welfare facilities, for the usuallyhandicapped, the physically handicapped, thementally retarded and for persons whose hearing isimpaired ;

(j)to identify the socio-economic, religous and culturalneeds of the community and to formulate andimplement appropriate projects and programmes tomeet such needs, and to undertake any other projectthat is conducive to the general welfare of thecommunity ;

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20073

(k)to promote, arrange, organize and hold exhibitions,lectures, seminars, workshops, classes and conferencesin furtherance of the objects of the Corporation ;

(l)to promote, peace, goodwill, understanding and co-operation among all communities and people of SriLanka ;

(m)to promote the upliftment of youth, who areeconomically and socially disadvantaged ;

(n)to promote the advancement of education andknowledge and to provide scholarships, grants orother forms of financial assistance to scholars,researchers and to recognized institutions ororganizations;

(o)to promote and encourage cultural, literary andcharitable activities ;

(p)to organize and hold public lectures, seminars,workshops, conferences, debates, short termeducational courses for youth, with a view toadvancing their knowledge and enabling them tosecure employment ;

(q)to promote and encourage publications on matters ofnational and international interest; and

(r)to establish and maintain educational institutions,libraries, museums and hospitals ;

4.The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Committee of management elected in

Rules of theCorporation.

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20074

accordance with the rules of the Corporation. Subject to theprovisions of this Act, the Committee of Management shallmake rules for, and in respect of, all or any of the followingmatters :—

(a)the terms and conditions of service includingremuneration of the officers and servants of theCorporation ;

(b)the schemes of recruitment and procedures forappointment of the officers and servants of theCorporation ;

(c)the annual programme and plan of work, the annualbudget, the annual report and accounts of theCorporation and the manner in which suchprogramme and plan of work, budget, report andaccounts are to be prepared ; and

(d)such other matters or in respect of which rules arerequired or authorized by this Act to be made.

5.The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act, have the following powers :—

(a)to acquire and hold property, movable or immovable,by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and subject to any trustattaching to such property, to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same;

(b)to enter into and perform, all such contracts as may beneccessary for carrying out the objects of theCorporation ;

(c)to receive or collect gifts, grants or donations, in cashor kind, from local or foreign persons ororganizations ;

Powers of theCorporation.

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20075

(d)to make, draw, accept, endorse, negotiate, buy, selland issue, bills of exchange, cheques, promissorynotes and other negotiable instruments and to openand maintain, current, savings and deposit accountsin any bank or banks ;

(e)to borrow, with or without security, moneysnecessary for carrying out its objects ;

(f)to invest any moneys belonging to the Corporationincluding any unapplied income as determined bythe Committee of Management ;

(g)to appoint such officers and servants as may benecessary for carrying out its objects ; and

(h)to make rules in relation to all matters connectedwith the working of the Corporation and to makesuch rules as are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, andto alter, vary, rescind them.

6.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Corporation in the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act ; and

(b)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Corporation, by way of loans, donations, giftsor grants from any source, whether in Sri Lanka orabroad.

Funds of theCorporation.

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20076

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of theCorporation—

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Corporation inthe exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act ; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of such Fund, by or under this Act.

7.(1) The Committee of Management shall causeproper books of accounts to be kept of the income andexpenditure, assets and liabilities and all other transactionsof the Corporation.

(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby qualified Auditors.

(4) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires“qualified Auditor” shall have the same meaning as inArticle 154(8) of the Constitution.

8.The Seal of the Corporation—

(a)shall be in the custody of such person as theCommittee of Management may from time to timedetermine ;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Committee of Management ;and

(c)shall not be affixed to any document except withthe sanction of the Committee of Managementand in the presence of two members of the Committeeof Management who shall sign the document intoken of their presence.

Seal of theCorporation.

The Committee ofManagement tocause properbooks of accountsto be kept.

Leo and Josephine De Almeida MemorialFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20077

9.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, butshall be given or transferred to some other Association orAssociations having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules prohibitedfrom distributing any income or property among its or theirmembers of the Corporation at, or immediately before, thetime of the dissolution of the Corporation.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shill prejudice orafffect the right of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act,the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.