PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LESTER JAMES PERIES AND SUMITRAPERIES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 36 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2011

1Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 2011

Short title

2—PL 005429—3,090 (01/2011)

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

L.D.—O. Inc. 6/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LESTER JAMES PERIES AND SUMITRA

PERIES FOUNDATION.

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known asthe “Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation”has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out its objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed, and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application :

BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Lester James Peries andSumitra Peries Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “LesterJames Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) and shall hereafter beadmitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession, underthe name and style of the “Lester James Peries and SumitraPeries Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofLester JamesPeries andSumitra PeriesFoundation.

Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 20112

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)to provide assistance for developing, promotingand sustaining the Sri Lankan cinema and thepersonalities associated with it ;

(b)to promote and foster cinema and related arts andcrafts for children and young adults ;

(c)to promote, improve, develop, provide financialassistance, and maintain academic, scientific,cultural, literary, artistic and physical abilities andaptitudes ;

(d)to promote, propagate and foster humanitarianideals, democratic and pluralistic values, goodcitizenship, patriotic concepts and beliefs ;

(e)to improve, develop, create, foster and maintaintalents and abilities in entrepreneurship, researchand training in business, technology andmanagement and concept of income-generation andself employment ventures and enterprises ;

(f)to establish, improve, encourage, develop andmaintain research and research facilities in scientific,cultural, educational, economic and all otheraspects of human development ;

(g)to advise and assist the Government, Non-Governmental organizations and individuals onmatters required to be done in furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation ;

(h)to preserve and promote all cinematographic andother creations of Lester James Peries and SumitraPeries including scripts, manuscripts, books, letters,articles, poems, photographs, maintained in print,electronic or any other media ;

General Objectsof theCorporation.

3Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 2011

(i)to preserve all cinematic equipment and personalmemorabilia owned and used by Lester James Periesand Sumitra Peries ;

(j)to maintain an archives to promote and preserve allcinematographic or other creations of any SriLankan filmmaker ;

(k)to grant prizes, rewards, awards or scholarships topromote and encourage creative talents in generalor in particular fields ;

(l)to organize, conduct and participate in seminars,meetings, workshops, discussions, talks, classes,films, film shows, demonstrations, sports andrecreational activities, and to write, print andpublish books, periodicals, magazins, articles andnewspapers, in furtherance of the objects hereinspecified and specifically in all areas of educationalactivity ;

(m)to establish and maintain libraries, workshops andreading rooms and to equip the same having regardto the basic objects of the Corporation ;

(n)to publish articles, periodicals or such otherliterature and information as may prove necessaryor useful for the purpose of the Corporation ; and

(o)to undertake and execute any trusts the undertakingwhereof seems desirable, either gratuitously orotherwise.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Board shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinionor place of birth.

Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 20114

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe other provisions of this Act and rules of the Corporationmade under section 6, be administered by a Board of Directors(in this Act referred to as the “Board”) consisting of aChairman and Secretary and such other members elected orappointed in accordance with such rules.

(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of theBoard of Administration of the Foundation holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, performand execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever, asare necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them includingthe power to :—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell, exchange or otherwisealienate, encumber or dispose of any immovableproperty for the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation ;

(c)accept grants, gifts, donations and bequests in cashor in kind:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theBoard shall obtain the prior written approval of theDepartment of External Resources of the Ministry

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

5Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 2011

of the Minister in charge of the subject of finance,in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or donations.Theaccounts of the Corporation in respect of suchgrants, gifts, or donations shall be audited by theAuditor General ;

(d)invest its funds and to open, maintain and closecurrent, deposit and savings accounts in any bank ;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit ; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law on all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers, duties and functions ;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed or the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation andthe Board, the time, places, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings and the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 20116

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;

(f)establishing committees for the proper executionof the objects of the Corporation ; and

(g)qualifications and disqualifications of members ofthe Corporation and the Board.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testmentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees, grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determine by the Board .

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid outof the fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualiafied auditor appointed by the Board.

Audit andAccounts.

Fund of theCorporation.

7Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 2011

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anaccountant issued by such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issuedby such Institute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of Chairman and suchother member duly authorized by the Board who shall signtheir names on the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portiontherof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the Corporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Limitation ofliabilities ofmembers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 20118

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCorporation shall be able and capable in law to acquire andhold any property, movable or immovable, which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of theCorporation and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of, the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be givenor transferred to some other association or associationshaving objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation andwhich is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited fromdistributing any income or profit among its or their members.Such association or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

9Lester James Peries and Sumitra Peries Foundation

(Incorporation) Act, No. 36 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.