5 Local Authorities Election (Amendment) Act. No. I of 2002

(b) excludes, or threatens to exclude, suchmember or adherent from such order ororganization,

in order to induce or compel such member or adherent to vote or refrain from voting for any recognized political party or independent group at an election under this Ordinance or to support or refrain from supporting any political party or independent group at such election, or on account of such member or adherent having voted or refrained from voting for any recognized political party or independent group at an election, or having supported or refrained from supporting any such recognized political party or independent group at such election, shall be guilty of the offence of undue influence.

(4) Any person who, being the employer ofany other person-

(a) terminates or threatens to terminate suchemployment ; or

(b) denies or threatens to deny to such otherperson any benefit or service which suchother person has already enjoyed, orwould have enjoyed, in the ordinarycourse of such employment,

in order to induce or compel such other person to vote or refrain from voting for any recognized political party or independent group at an election under this Ordinance or to support or refrain from supporting any recognized political party or independent group at such election, or on account of such other person having voted or refrained from voting for any recongnized political party or independent group at such election, or having supported or refrained from supporting any

26 Local Awhorities Elections ( A111e11d111e11t)

Securi1y by applican1 for COSIS &c. ofapplica1ion.

Act, No. 1 of 2002

82z. (I) At the time of the filling of the application under section 82v or within three days afterwards, security for the payment of all costs, charges and expenses that may become payable by the applicant shall be given on behalf of the

applicant.

(2) 1l1e security shall be an amount of not lessthan ten thousand rupees. The security required by this section shall be given by a deposit of money.

(3) If the security as in this section providedis not given by the applicant, no further proceedings shall be had on such application and the respondent may apply to the Supreme Court for an order directing the rejection of such application and for the payment of the respondent's costs. The costs of hearing and deciding such application shall be paid as ordered by the Supreme Court, and in default of such order shall form part of the general costs of the appeal.

(4) The deposit of money by way of securityfor the payment of the costs. charges and expenses payable by the applicant shall be made by payment to the Registrar of the Supreme Court which shall be vested in and drawn upon from time to time by the Chief Justice for the purposes for which security is required by this section.

(5) The Registrar of the Supreme Court shallkeep a book open to the inspection of all parties .concerned in which shall he entered from time to time the amount and the application to which it is applicable.

34 local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

Power of Coun to excempt i nnoccnt act from being illegal.

Act. No. I of 2002

(d) that in all other respects the election wa‹free from any corrupt or illegal practiceon the part of such candidate and of hisagents,

then the election of such candidate shall not, by reason of the offences mentioned in such report. pe void, nor shall the candidate be subject to any incapacity under this Ordinance.

82AM. Where, on application made, it is shown to an Election Judge or to the Judges of the Supreme Court, in the case of an appeal, by such evidence as seems to the Election Judge or the Judges t>f the Supreme Court sufficient-

(a)that any act or omission of a candidate atan election, or of any of his agents or otherperson, would, by reason of being apayment, engagement, employment, orcontract in contravention of thisOrdinance or of otherwise being incontravention of any of the provisions ofthis Ordinance, be hut for this section anillegal practice ; and

(b)that any such act or omission arose frominadvertence or from accidentalmiscalculations or from some otherreasonable cause of a like nature, and inany case did not arise from any want ofgood faith,

and in the circumstances ii seems to the Judge, or the J_udges of the Supreme Court as the case may be after giving the candidates, the returning officer, and any elector within the electoral district an opportunity of being heard, to be just that the candidate in question and his agent or other person, or any of them should not be subject to