PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

D. M. DASSANAYAKE SOCIAL SERVICESAND CHARITY FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 17 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th August, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 10, 2012

1D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2012

2—PL 006027—3,090 (05/2011)

[Certified on 06th August, 2012]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 17/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE D. M. DASSANAYAKE SOCIALSERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “D. M.Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation” hasheretofore been established for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all the objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the D. M. DassanayakeSocial Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 17 of 2012.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the D.M. Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation(hereinafter referred to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “D. M.Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued and shall have full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofD. M.DassanayakeSocial Servicesand CharityFoundation.

Short Title.

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20122

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be—

(a)establish vocational training centres and conductother training programmes for the unemployed andneedy with a view to prepare them for a betterlivelihood through self employment and therebyto uplift the econmic standards of the people whichalleviates poverty of the people in Sri Lanka;

(b)promote the advancement of health of the peoplein remote and under developed areas by providingassistance financially or otherwise for theestablishment of healthcare centres and hospitalsand to provide equipment, medicine, wheel chairsand other provisions to hospitals and health centresfor distribution to the patients;

(c)organize programmes which may encouragereligious and ethnic harmony;

(d)conduct seminars, workshops and similarprogrammes which may contribute to thedevelopment of personality of youth and therebyto build up a refined society;

(e)assist people affected by any man made or naturaldisasters by constructing houses and roads for themand assisting such persons to resume their normalday to day livelihood;

(f)assist needy and deserving students to further theireducation by conducting classes, by providingbooks, equipment and school uniforms to suchstudents and to assist them financially or otherwiseto complete thier education;

(g)enter into ageements with other institutions whichhave similar objects as the Corporation and therebyfacilitate the exchange of resources among suchinstitutions;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2012

(h)sponsor conferences, seminars, workshops andsimilar activities to enhance the physical, mental,social and intellectual development of the people;and

(i)oraganize welfare activities for the betterment andwellbeing of the family members of the demisedsoldiers.

(2) In the implementation of the objectives of this Act asare specified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensurethat such implementation is carried out without distinctionbased on race, cast, religion, language, sex or political opinion.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a)open, operate and close bank accounts in any oneor more banks as may be determined by theGoverning Council;

(b)borrow or raise money with or without security,and to receive or collect grants and donations:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theGoverning Council shall obtain prior approval ofthe Department of External Resources of theMinistry of the Minister to whom the subject ofFinance is assigned in respect of all foreign grants,gifts or donations;

(c)invest any funds of the Corporation which are notimmediately required for the purpose of theCorporation in a way that may be determined bythe Governing Council to achieve the objects ofthe Corporation;

(d)purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire, sell orotherwise obtain any movable or immovableproperty which may be required for the purpose of

Powers of theCorporation.

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20124

the Corporation and which may lawfully beacquired for those purposes and to deal with ordispose of the same, as it may deem expedient witha view to achieving the objects of the Corporation;

(e)appoint, employ and dismiss the employeesrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation and pay them such remuneration asmay be determined by the Governing Council;

(f)enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly orthrough any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Governing Council, all such contractsor agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the Corporation; and

(g)do all other things as may be necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisionsof this Act and the rules of the Corporation made undersection 6 of this Act, be administered by a Governing Councilconsisting of the Chairman, Secretary, two AssistantSecretaries, Treasurer and six other members.

(2) No act or proceeding of the Governing Council shallbe deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of avacancy among its members or any defect on the election ornomination of any member thereof.

(3) The first Governing Council of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Governing Council holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act and shall continue to hold officeuntil a new Governing Council is appointed in accordancewith the rules of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

5D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2012

(4) The incumbent Chairperson of the Governing CouncilMrs. Indrani Dassanayake shall be the lifelong Chairpersonof the Governing Council unless she resigns from officeearlier.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting by a majority of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present and voting to make rulesnot inconsistence with the provisions of this Act, or anyother written law—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,resignation or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, vacation of or removal from office of officebearers and their powers, functions, duties anddisciplinary control;

(c)the election of the members of the GoverningCouncil and its powers, functions, duties anddisciplinary control and the terms of office ofmembers of the Governing Council;

(d)the powers, functions, duties and conduct of theofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Governing Council,the times, venue, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporation,and the accomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20126

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in thelike the manner, as a rule made under sub section (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold propertyboth movable and immovable, which may become vested init by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subjectto the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, withfull power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore received or hereafter be received by wayof gifts, testamentary dispositons, grants, donations,contributions or fees on behalf ot the Corporation shall bedeposited to the credit of the Fund of the Corporation in oneor more banks as the Governing Council may determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyto defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation inthe exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act.

(4) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalender year.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby

Corporationmay holdmovable andimmovableproperty.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

7D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2012

constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

10.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contyributionexceeding the amount due from such member as membershipfees.

11.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(3) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnerof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the councilof such Institute.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever, except in the presence of the Chairman, Secretaryand the Treasurer of the Corporation who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudits.

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20128

13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of alldebts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be givenor transferred to some other institution having objects similarto those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such instiution or institutions may bedetermined by the Governing Council on or before thedisslution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

9D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and CharityFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.