PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 30, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 30th October, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SRI KALYANODAYA SOCIETY - KANDY(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 62 OF 2009

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20091

[Certified on 30th October 2009]

L. D. — O. (Inc.) 15/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI KALYANODAYA SOCIETY - KANDY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “SriKalyanodaya Society-Kandy” has been established in Kandy,for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with the said Societyaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of the“Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy” (hereinafter referred to asthe “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of theSociety hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Sri KalyanodayaSociety-Kandy” and by that name may sue and be sued andhave full power and authority to have and use a commonseal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to nurture the Buddha Sasana among Buddhists bytaking steps for its expansion and for the stability ;

(b)to work in collaboration with all Buddhist Societiesto improve peace, harmony and co-operation amongBuddhists;

2—PL 002114—3,150 (07/2009)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporationof SriKalyanodayaSociety-Kandy.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20092

(c)to organize religious preachings in DhammaSchools and mediation centres, with a view toinculcating Buddhist Principles among Buddhists;

(d)to launch a welfare scheme for Buddhists;

(e)to maintain and manage the properties belongingto the Corporation for the benefit of Buddhists;

(f)to engage in educational and cultural activities forBuddhists; and

(g)to organize religious and educational excursionsfor Buddhists.

4.There shall be an Advisory Board of the Corporationconsisting of not more than seven members including laymenand clergy, for the purpose of advising the Committee ofManagement.

5. (1) The management and administration of theCorporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act andthe rules of the Corporation made under section 8, vest in aCommittee of Management consisting of the President, fourVice Presidents, Chief Secretary, Assistant-Secretary,Treasurer, Audit Officer, Organizer and seven other members.

(2) The Corporation shall also have a sub-committee forthe welfare and when necessary for the purposes of theCorporation, the Corporation shall establish special sub-committee.

(3) The members of the first Committee of Managementof the Corporation shall be the Committee of Managementof the Society holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.The Board shall cause to be maintained a register ofmembers in which every person who on the day preceding

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Advisory Boardof Corporation.

MembershipRegister.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20093

the date of commencement of this Act is a member of thesociety and every person duly admitted as a member of theCorporation shall have his name inscribed.

7.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

(a)rent out lands and buildings belonging to theCorporation in order to achieve the objects of theCorporation;

(b)raise funds and accept donations and gifts either incash or materials;

(c)construct or cause to construct buildings on anyland belonging to the Corporation ;

(d)make, write, accept, discount, counter sign,negotiate, purchase, sell and issue Bills of Exchange,Cheques, Promissory notes and any other negotiableinstrument and to open, operate and maintain Currentand Savings Bank account in any Bank ;

(e)invest the funds of the Corporation which are notimmediately required for the purposes of theCorporation;

(f)accept, operate, fulfil and manage any lawful trustand conditions with regard to movable andimmovable properties ;

(g)appoint, remunerate, employ and dismiss officersand servants of the Corporation required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation; and

(h)train persons required for the achievement of theobjects of the Corporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20094

8.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any meeting and by a majority of not less than two-third of the members present and voting to make rules notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other lawfor the following matters:—

(a)the admission and classification of membership andwithdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the members of the Committee andthe powers, duties and conduct of the members ofthe Committee;

(c)the election of office bearers, their term of office,resignation from or vacation of or removal fromoffice, their powers, conduct and duties;

(d)the procedure to be followed at meetings, and thequorum therefor and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)to determine the qualifications of the members ofthe Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation;

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the attainment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation under subsection(1), may be amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and allmoneys received by way of gift, bequest, donations,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account

Rules of theCorporation.

The Fund of theCorporation.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20095

of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theFund of the Corporation in one or more banks as theCommittee may determine.

(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation orreserve fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, improvementand development of the properties belonging to theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

(4) All moneys and properties received for the Fund shallbe utilized solely for the purposes of the Corporation and inany event they shall not be alienated to the members.

10.(1) The Corporation shall maintain proper accountsof its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and allother transaction of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited atleast once a year, by a qualified auditor appointed by theCorporation.

(3) For the purpose of the section “qualified auditor” shallmeans—

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

Account andAudit.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20096

11.All debts and liabilities of the Society on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid out of the Fund of the Society and all debts due to,subscriptions and contributions payable to the Society onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation.

12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property both movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporationmade under section 8 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of such member oroffice bearers as may be decided by the Committee who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness:

Provided however any instrument relating to any financialmatter shall become void unless it is signed by the Treasureror the Assistant Treasurer and the President or Secretary.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property after the satisfaction of all debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transmittedto some other institution or institutions having objects similarto those of the Corporation, which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such institution or institutions may bedetermined by the Committee on or before the dissolution ofthe Corporation.

Debts due andpayable to theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20097

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Sri Kalyanodaya Society-Kandy (Incorporation) Act, No. 62 of 20098

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.