PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

BAMBALAPITIYA FLATS BUDDHIST SOCIETY (INCORPORATION) -ACT, No. 4 OF 2008

[Certified on 28th January, 2008]

Primed 011 the Order of Govem111e11t

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 01, 2008

PRNTED AT1HE DEPARlMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING. SRI LANKA

TO BE PIJROiASEO ATTI!E GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7 .00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

Bambalapitiya Flats 811ddlzist Society ( Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2008

[Certified on 28th January, 2008]

L.D.-0. lNC 34/2005.

AN An TO rNCORJ\)RA TE mE BMIBAIJ\PmYA FLATS

BUDDfUST SOCIElY

WHEREAS a Buddhist Society called and known as the · .Ğblc. · ·Bamhalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society" ·has heretofore beenformed in Sri L.inka for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all ohjccts and matters connected withthe said Buddhist Society, according to the rules agreed toby its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society has heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for which it was formed and­has applied to be incorporated. and it will be for the public advantage to grant such application :

BE it therefore enacted hy the Parliament of the Democratic - Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

I. Thi.s Act may be cited as the Bambalapitiya FlatsBuddhist Society (Incorporation) Act, No . 4 of 2008.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act, such and so many persons as now are .members of the Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society (hereinafter referred to as "the Buddhist Society") or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and become a body Corporate (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation'") with perpetual succession under the name and style of the Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society, and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to have and use a common seal, and alter the same at its pleasure.

Short title.

Incorporation of the Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society.

General objects of the Corporation.

2 Bam'balapitiya Flats Buddhist Society ( Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2008

c· The general objects for which the Corporation is ·constituted are hereby declared to be-

(a)to promote and protect the Buddhism and Buddhistrituals, practices and .traditions of the Buddhistsresiding in and around the Bambalapitiya Flats ;

( b)to dpo_nsor. and promote the study of, and research· into, all aspects of Buddhism ;

(c) . to establish and maintain educational institutions.. to teach Buddhism and to inculcate in the people,the Buddha Dhamma and Buddhist values, and. to encourage. them to lead their lives inaccordance with such Dhamma and Buddhist. values;.

(d) · to establish and maintain Viharas, monasteries,shrines, hermitages and other religiousinstitutions and to promote, foster and preserve, Betddhist festivals, rites, rituals, practices and traditions ;

(e), to provide educational facilities and related services to the Buddhist community residing in and around the Bambalapitiya Flats ;

(/) to promote peace and foster religious, ethnic and racial harmony in the community ;

(g)to provide social and welfare services and toestablish and maintain centres and institutions for· the welfare of the Buddhist community in the· Bambalapitiya National Flats ;

·(ti) to· establish and maintain libraries, information·and resource centres for the benefit of the Buddhistin and around the Bambalapitiya Flats ;

2

Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society 3 ( Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2008

(i)to help and assist Buddhist in and aroundBambalapitiya Flats to engage in any technical orsimilar industry as self employment and to train themin any such industry ;

(J)to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars,workshops, classes, debates. conferences or otheractivities, in furtherance of the objects of theCorpora'tion ; and

(k)to establish friendly relations in collaboration withother associations, organisations or societies havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation in SriLanka or abroad.

4.(1) The management and administration of theaffairs of the Corporation. shall subject to the provisions of this Act and rules made under section 7 be administered by a Executive Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") consisting of President, four Vice Presidents, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer and six other members as are elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation from among the members who are permanent residents of the Bambalapitiya National Flats Complex.

(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall be theCommittee holding office on the day immediately peeceding the date of commencement of this Act, who shall hold office · until the holding of the first Annual General Meeting of theCorporation.

5.( 1) The Committee shall cause a register to bemaintained in which every person who at the commencement of this Act. is a member of the Corporation and every person thereafter duly admitted a member of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall have his name inscribed.

Management of the affairs of the Corporation.

Register of membership.

Powers of the Corporation.

4 Bambalapifiya Flms Buddhist Society

([11corporatio11) Act, No. 4 of 2008

(2) The register shall contain the following particulars:--

(a)the name, address and occupation of each mcmherof the Corporation ;

(b)the date on which the name of the member wasinscribed in the register ;

(c)the date on which any person ceased to be a member.

6.Subject tQ the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power 10 d0. perform and execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the Corp0ration or any one of them, including the power-

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise obtain lands or buildings, which may be required for the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b)to raise funds and receive grants. gifts or donations in cash or kind ;

(c)to erect or cause to be erected, any building or structure on any land belonging to, or held by the Corporation ;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse. negotiate. buy, sell and issue bills of exchange. cheques. promissory notes and other negotiabk instruments and to open, operate, maintain and close current, savings and deposit accounts in any bank ;

(e)to inÜest any funds not immediately required fur Ýe purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the Committee may think fit ;

Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society 5 ({11corporatio11) Act, No. 4 of 2008

(j)to undertake, accept, execute·, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditions affectingany movable or immovable property ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof, officers and servants of the Corporation, and to pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may be determined by the Corporation ; and

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka for the purposes ofthe Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from lime to Rules of thetime, _at any general meeting or at an extraordinary general Corporation.meeting convened for such purpose and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or

any other written law, for all or any of the following matters:-

(a)classification of membership, fees payable bymembers, admission, withdrawal, expulsion orresignation oi' members ;

(b)election of the Co'.nmittee or vacation of, or removalfrom office of a Committee Member and the powers,duties and conduct of the Committee ;

(c)appointment, employment and dismissal of variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation,their powers, duties, functions and conduct and thepayment of remuneration to them ;

(d)appointment, employment and dismissal of anauditor and the_ payment of remuneration thereof;

(e)the procedure to be followed in the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings ;

(j)the qualification and disqualifications formembership of the Committee and the Corporation ;

Funds of the Corporation.

Accounts and Audit.

6 Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society ( /11corporatio11) Act, No. 4 of 2008

(g)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(h)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to theruless of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as the Committee shall determine.

(2) The Corporation may create a depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement, development and preservation of, the property of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneywhich are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation, however.derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects set out in this Act, and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly. by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise to the members of the Corporation.

9.(l) The Corporation shall cause proper acc<;mnts to bekept of all the moneys received and expended by the Corporation.

Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society 7 ( lllcorporatfon) Act, No. 4 of 2008

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year, and the correctness of . income and expenditure account a!1d balance sheet shall be

certified by an auditor who shail be an associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka appointed by the Corporation.

(3) The Financial year of th<; Corporation shall be theperiod commencing on the First day of April in any year and ending on the thirty first day of March of the following year.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all debts due to, and any subscriptions and contributions payable to, the Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation to sell, mortgage. lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of same.

Debts due by and payable to the Society.

Cofl)Or:ition may hold propcny movable and immovable.

12 If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there Propenyremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferred to some other institution having objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which, are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income or profit among their members. Such institution shall be determined by the members of the Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.

remaining on dissolution.

Seal of the Corporation.

Limit:llion of liabilily.

Savings of 1hc righis of the Republic and others.

Sinhala texl to prevail in case of inconsistency.

8 Bambalapitiya Flats Buddhist Society

(lncorporatio11) Act, No. 4 of 2008

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the · President and the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

14.No member of ·the Corporation shall, for thepurpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any ·contribution exceeding the amount ·of such membership fees as may be due from him to the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights qf the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Annual subscription of English Bills and AclS of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. l, 180 (Foreign), Payable 10 lhc SuPERINreNDENT, GOVERNMENT PuBUCATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT Of GoVERJ'IMENT INFORMATION, No. 163, KlRULAPON A MAWAlHA, POLHENGOOA, COLOMBO OS before 15th December

each year in respect of 1he year following.