MAHANUWARA BAUDDHA VIDYA PEETAYA(INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 23 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 12th August, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 13, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

[Certified on 12 th August, 1999]

L.D.–O. 48/96.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MAHANUWARA BAUDDHAVIDYA PEETAYA

WHEREAS a centre called and known as the “MahanuwaraBauddha Vidya Peetaya” has heretofore been established atGurudeniya, Tennakumbura, Kandy for the purpose ofeffectively carrying out and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Centre, according to the rules agreed to, by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Centre has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated, and it is now desirable and expedient that thesaid Centre should be incorporated:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Mahanuwara BauddhaVidya Peetaya (Incorporation) Act, No.23 of 1999.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theMahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya (hereinafter referred toas “the Bauddha Vidya Peetaya”) or shall hereafter be admitted,members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be andbecome a body corporate with perpetual succession, underthe name and style of the “Mahanuwara Bauddha VidyaPeetaya” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and bythat name, may sue and be sued with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and alter the same at itspleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be-

(a) to foster and promote education by establishing andmaintaining “Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya”,Pirivena training institutes of bhikkus, schools, andEducational institutions and by granting scholarships;

General objectsof theCorporation

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe MahanuwaraBauddha VidyaPeetaya.

H - 022545

Preamble.

2Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

(b) to preserve and disseminate the Theravadhi Buddhistphilosophy and way of life;

(c) to maintain friendly relations with other Buddhistorganisations in and outside Sri Lanka;

(d) to establish and maintain a department for orientallanguages;

(e) to establish and maintain a department forinternational languages such as English, French;

(f) to engage in the dissemination of the Dhammainternationally;

(g) to conduct vocational and educational courses foryouths in Sri Lanka;

(h) to train students in small industries and to help themfinancially or otherwise to establish themselves asuseful citizens;

(i) to engage in any industry, trade or import and exportbusiness and to promote and carry on anyagricultural, industrial and commercial enterprise, toprovide aid and assistance to any person for suchenterprises, to conduct training programmes and toorganize services and propaganda campaigns, witha view to providing the public with technologicalexpertise;

(j) to give aid by way of scholarships, or cash orotherwise, to monks, volunteers and other persons,engaged in the furtherance of the objects of theCorporation;

(k) to provide and maintain libraries, to subscribe for,and issue, books, journals, souvenirs and periodicals,and to provide such other services as may be deemeddesirable for attaining the objects of the Corporation;

3Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

(l) to promote, arrange, organise and hold, exhibitions,lectures, seminars simposia, workshops, classesdebates, conferences, tours, excursions or otheractivities in furtherance of the objects of theCorporation;

(m) to co-operate and associate with other associations,societies or organisations, having objects similar tothose of the Corporation;

(n) to provide higher educational diplomas and othereducational programmes and courses of study inayurveda and indigenous medicine;

(o) to act as an agent of any national or foreign technicalor vocational training institution or affiliate institutionor organization carrying on educational activities;

(p) to do all other acts and things as are or may benecessary conducive, or incidental, to, theattainment of the above objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform executeall such acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion and furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power toopen, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raisemoneys, with or without security, to receive or collect grantsand donations, to invest its funds, and to engage employ anddismiss officers and servants for the purpose of carrying outof the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act and the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation, be administered by aBoard of Directors consisting of the Director-General,Deputy Director -General and three AssistantDirector-Generals the Honorary Secretary, AssistantSecretary and the Honorary Treasurer and not lessthan ten other members to be elected in accordancewith the rules, in force for the time being, of the Corporation.

General Powers ofthe Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection(1) of this section the Venerable Theripehe Sri DhammanandaThero, shall be the Director-General of the Corporation forlife and he shall nominate his successor to be Director-Generalof the Corporation after him. Such succeeding Director-General shall also hold the office of Director-General for life.

(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Committee of Management ofthe Bauddha Vidya Peetaya holding office on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whosenames are specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at an Annual General Meeting or at any General Meetingof the Corporation convened for the purpose with two weeksnotice and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of themembers present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act or any other written law for theadmission, withdrawal and expulsion of members of theCorporation, powers, conduct and duties of the office bearersand of the Committee of Management, the procedure to beobserved in the transaction of business at meeting of theCorporation the conduct, duties and functions of employeesof the Corporation, and otherwise generally, for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation, and theaccomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may, ata like meeting, and in like manner be altered, added to, amendedor recinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to,the Centre on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act.

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due by andpayable to theBauddha VidyaPeetaya.

5Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

8. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of the Director-General and the Secretary who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence, and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any such person as a witness.

9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gift, testamentary disposition,transfer, donation, contributions or fees shall be deposited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedetermined by the Committee of Management.

(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,development and improvement of the property of theCorporation.

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging it’s powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe Fund.

10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property movable or immovable and whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the ruels in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, with full power to mortgage, sell, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other person, except such as are mentioned in thisAct, and those claiming by , from, or under, them.

12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

Fund of theCorporation

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Savings of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

6Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

FIRST SCHEDULE[section 5 (3)]

Board of Directors

Director General : Rev. Galkatiwala Nandarathana Thero

Deputy Director General : Hon. Harindranath Dunuwila

Assistant Director Generals : 1. Mr. Sen Alwis2. Mr. N.K.R. Tilakeratne3. Mr. B.W. Samarakoon

Secretary : Mr. J. Bopitiyage

Vice Secretary : Mr. R.M.D.B. Ananda Weerasooriya

Treasurer : Mr. G.D.L. Leelaratne

Committee Memebers:

1. Mr. P.B. Ransigolla2. Mr. Senerath Galkaduwa3. Mr. Rambanda Dharmadasa4. Mr. K.A. Dinapala5. Mr. Dharmadasa Weeraratne6. Mr. N.H.G. Dharmadasa7. Mr. W.M. Ranatunga Bandara8. Mr. M.V.S. Samaratunga9. Mr. W.M. Seneviratne10. Mr. Mahinda Ekanayake

Other Members:

1. Mr. A.V.de. Wijewardena2. Mr. W.K. Dudley Goonatilake3. Mr. Dayananda Weeraratne4. Mr. Henry Amarasinghe5. Mr. Gamini Kaluarachchi6. Mr. M.D. Nimalsiri7. Mr. B.H. Perera

7Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999

8. Mr. P.G. M. Karunaratne

9. Mr. H.W. Jinadasa

10. Mr. T. Gamini de Silva

11. Dr. K. Kushapana

12. Mr. D.E. Pathirana

13. Mr. Gamini Wetthasinghe

14. Mr. P.D.P. Pathirana

15. Mr. A.C. Abeyweera

16. Mr. A.G.S. Dayaratne

17. Mr. Athula Seneviratne

18. Mr. Indika Premadasa

19. Mr. H.M. Dissanayake

20. Mr. Kumarasighe Pathirane

21. Mr. Maiththri Athukorale

22. Mr. P.Y.J. Seneviratne

23. Mr. A.R.M. Ratnayake

24. Mr. B. Don Chandrasena

25. Mr. L.G. Jayatissa

26. Mr. B.G. Wijeratne

27. Mr. H.B. Samaratunga

28. Mr. Sunil Perera

29. Mr. P.K.G. Dasanayake

30. Mr. A.B. Ekanayake

31. Dr. B.D.S. Gurudeniya

32. Dr. G.W. Karunaratne

33. Mr. U.A. Yasaratne

34. Mr. N.M. Nissanka

35. Mr. A.S. Ratnayake

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.