PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

GNANODAYA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 29 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st July, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 03, 2007

1 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

2—PL 002136–3,300 (05/2007)

[Certified on 31st July, 2007]

L.D.—O. Inc 15/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE GNANODAYA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Gnanodaya Foundation ” has heretofore been formed inPolgasovita, Wethara for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said Association according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1. This Act may be cited as the Gnanodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 29 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act.such and so many persons as now are members of theGnanodaya Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the “GnanodayaFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be —

(a)to establish and maintain orphanages, homes forthe aged and social welfare centers ;

Incorporation ofthe GnanodayaFoundation.

Preamble.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Short title.

2 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

(b)to provide medical assistance, food and housing tothe poor, the destitute and the sick ;

(c)to provide welfare facilities for the deaf, dumb andthe blind and disabled persons ;

(d)to assist financially by granting scholarships to thestudents who are engaged in the attainment of theobjects of the Corporation ;

(e)to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe forand issue books, journals, souvenirs and periodicalsand to provide such other services as may be deemeddesirable for attaining the objects of theCorporation ;

(f)to promote, arrange, organize and hold exhibitions,lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,debates, conferences, tours, excursions or any otheractivities as are needed by the students ; and

(g)to co-operate and associate with other associations,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation ;

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, maintain and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise money, with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds, and to engage,employ and dismiss officers and servants required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act, the rules of the Corporation madeunder Section 6, be administered by a Board of Management

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

consisting of President, Deputy President, two Vice Presidents,Secretary, two Assistant Secretaries, Treasurer, the Director-General, and not less than ten other members elected inaccordance with such rules.

(2)The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Managementof the Gnanodaya Foundation holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of, or removal from office of, officebearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c)the election of the members of the Board ofManagement other than the its powers, conduct andduties and the terms of office of the members of theBoard of Management ;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the officers,agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of, meetings of the Board of Managementthe times, places, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct ofbusiness thereat ;

Rules of theCorporation.

4 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2)Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3)The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations, contributions or fees shall be credited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Board of Management.

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise,and discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the fund.

8.(1)The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified aiditor.

Accounts andAudit.

Fund of theCorporation.

5 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

(4)In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establidhed by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on the day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation and itshall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporationwho shall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence, and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

Debts due byand payable tothe foundation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

How the Seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

6 Gnanodaya Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2007

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Association orAssociations having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such Association or Associations shallbe determined by the members of the Corporation at, orimmediately before, the time of the dissolution of theCorporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons, those claiming by, from, orunder them.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.