6Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

COUNCIL OF THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNITYPHYSICIANS OF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 18 oF 1999

[Certified on 24th June, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 25, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: 4.50Postage: Rs. 3.50

[Internet Version]

1Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

[Certified on 24 th June, 1999]

L.D. - O. 61/96.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE COUNCIL OF THE COLLEGE OFCOMMUNITY PHYSICIANS OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a College called and Known as “ The Collegeof Community Physicians of Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka;

AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the saidCollege have heretofore been successfully managed andcarried out by the council of the College.

AND WHEREAS the council of the college has applied tobe incorporated and will be for the public advantage to grantthe application.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as The Council of the Collegeof Community Physicians of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,No. 18 of 1999.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, the members of the Council for the time being of thecollege of community physicians of Sri Lanka, consisting ofthe President, the President elect, the Secretary, the assistantSecretary, the Treasurer, the Editor, ten other Members, theimmediate past president, the immediate past Secretary andthe immediate past Treasurer unless re-elected to therespective post or elected to any other post in the council,shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name andstyle of the “Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue and be sued in allcourts with full power and authority to have and use a com-mon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Council ofthe College ofCommunityPhysicians ofSri Lanka.

2Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

3.The General objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:-

(a) to organise programmes on community medicineincluding post graduate education and research, inorder to promote knowledge and experience in thesubject among medical practitioners;

(b) to organise programmes on community medicinefor the welfare of the people, and to promoteawareness of the subject among the people;

(c) to promote fellowshisp with, and assist, personsand institutions engaged in the practice ofcommunity medicine;

(d) to do other acts and things as are conducive orincidental to the attainment of the above objects.

4.Subject to the provisions of the Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to doperform and execute all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable or expedient for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation including thepower to operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raisemoneys with or without security, to receive or collect grantsand donations, to invest the funds of the Corporation, toconstruct any building on any land vested in or acquired orheld by the Corporation, and to engage, employ and dismissofficers and servants required for the carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

5.(i) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by the votesof not less than two thirds of the members present andentitled to vote, to make such rules, as are not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act, or any other written law, forthe management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects. Such rales when made, may ata like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to, amendedor rescinded.

General objectsof theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporarion.

Rules of theCorporation.

3Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

(2) The rules of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka in force on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rules ofthe Corporation made under this section in so far as they arenot inconsistent with this Act or any other written law.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

6.All debts and liabilities of the College of CommunityPhysicians of Sri Lanka existing on the day preceding the dateof commencement of this Act, shall be paid by theCorporation hereby constituted and all debts due to, andsubscriptions and contributions payable to,the College onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act.

7.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

8.The income and property of the Corporation shall beapplied solely towards the promotion of the objects of theCorporation, and no portion thereof shall be paid ortransferred, directly or indirectly , by way of dividend, loan,bonus or otherwise howsoever, by way of profit, to themembers of the Corporation:

provided however, that the provisions of this section shallnot prohibit -(a) the payment in good faith of reasonable andadequate remuneration to any officer or servant ofthe Corporarion or to any member of theCorporarion for any services rendered by him tothe Corporation;

Debts due by andpayable to theCouncil.

Corporation mayhold thepropertymovable andimmovable.

Funds of theCorporation.

4Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

(b) the payment of reasonable and adequate rent forpremises let to the Corporation by any member ofthe Corporation or by any company of which amember of the Corporation is a shareholder , and

(c) the re-imbursement or repayment of reasonable orproper expenses incurred, with the prior approvalof the Counil by any member, officer or servant ofthe Corporation, in the discharge or performanceof the functions or duties or in promoting theobjects of the Corporation.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of such number ofpersons as may be provided for in the rules of theCorporation, who shall sign their names on the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate, or of any other persons, except such as arementioned in this Act and claiming by, from or under, them.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers

Sinhala tex toprevail in case ofinconsistency

5Council of the College of Community Physiciansof Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the Superintendent. Government Publications Bureau, No. 32,Transworks House, Lotue Road, Colombo 01 before 15 th December each year in respect ofthe year following.