PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BIBLIOMANIA EDUCATIONAL BOOKSFOR THE NATION FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 34 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 26th June, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 26, 2009

1Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

[Certified on 26th June, 2009]

L. D. —O. INC 10/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BIBLIOMANIA EDUCATIONALBOOKS FOR THE NATION FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an association called and known as the“Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation”has heretofore been formed at Colombo, for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out all objects and matters connectedwith the said association, according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Bibliomania EducationalBooks for the Nation Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 34 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theBibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) and such otherpersons as shall hereafter be admitted as members of thecorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of the“Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at its willand pleasure.

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe BibliomaniaEducationalBooks for theNationFoundation.

2Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to undertake the publishing, printing, translationand distribution islandwide of urgently neededimportant educational books in Sinhala and Tamiland the importation of books of internationalimportance ;

(b)to upgrade and improve facilities of libraries ineducational institutions ;

(c)to establish and maintain libraries, mobile librariesand mobile “Books for the Nation” sales outletsthroughout the country ;

(d)to enable children, youth and adults in indigentcircumstance to gain access to books and otherpublications required to help them to engage inhigher studies and to make available to them booksat affordable prices ;

(e)to conduct vocational and educational trainingcourses and research in the field of the bookpublishing, translation of books into Sinhala andTamil languages and distribution of books inSri Lanka and to provide an opportunity to use theworldwide web pages on the internet by openingislandwide centres for such purpose ;

(f)to provide educational aids, books and magazinesto the poor and to the destitute ;

(g)to assist financially by granting scholarships orotherwise to voluntary workers and others who areengaged in the attainment of the objects of theCorporation ;

(h)to work in co-operation with other associations,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation ; and

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

(i)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

4.Where any publication or other printed educationalmatter published or introduced through electronic media forthe advancement of the objects of the Corporation undersection 3, is sought to be distributed islandwide or madeavailable to students, the Corporaton shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Educational Publications Departmentestablished under the Ministry of Education.

5.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Actand rules of the Corporation made under section 7, be vestedin the Executive Committee (hereinafter referred to as the“Committee”) consisting of a President, a Secretary and twoother office bearers and such other persons as may be providedfor in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) In the event of any vacancy arising in the Committeedue to resignation, removal or death of any office bearer, suchvacancy shall be filled according to rules of the Corporation.

(3) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist ofthe members of the Executive Committee of the Foundationholding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to borrow or raise money for the purposes of theCorporation ;

(b)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts ;

Prior approval toprint anddistributeeducationalmaterial.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

4Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

(c)to invest any funds not immediately required for thepurpose of the Corporation, in such manner as theCommittee may think fit ;

(d)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds ;

(e)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,or body of persons ;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof agents, officers and servants of the Corporationand to pay them such salaries, allowances andgratuities as may be determined by the Corporation;

(g)to appoint sub-committees to carry out the objectsof the Corporation ; and

(h)to do all such other acts and things as are necessaryor expedient for the accomplishment of the objectsof the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules which are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election, resignation, vacation or removal ofoffice bearers ;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers, agents and officers and servants ofthe Corporation;

Rules of theCorporation.

5Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

(d)the procedure to be observed at, the summoningand holding of meeting of the Corporation and anysub-committee, the times, places, notice and agendaof such meetings, the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended, altered,added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner asa rule made under subsection (1).

(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gifttestamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules made under section 7, shall have fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise disposeof the same.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and alldebts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable tothe Foundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purpose of this Act.

10.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,testamentary disposition, transfer, contribution, donation,subscription, fees or grants for and on account of theCorporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporationin one or more banks, as the Committee shall determine.

Fund of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

6Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions under this Act.

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor who shall be an associate member of theChartered Institute of Sri Lanka and appointed by theCorporation for that purpose.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfactions of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to some other association orassociations having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation and which is or are by the rules prohibited fromthe distribution of any income or profit among its or theirmembers. Such association or associations shall be determinedby the members of the Corporation at or immediately beforethe time of dissolution of the Corporation.

13.The land and property of the Corporation howsoeverderived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividendor profits, to the members of the Corporation.

14.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount payable as membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofland andproperty of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliabilites ofmembers.

Audit andAccounts.

7Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Secretary and may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Committee.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Presidentand Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence, and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

16.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body, politic orcorporate.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

8Bibliomania Educational Books for the NationFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.