PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYARELIGIOUS AND BUDDHIST EDUCATIONALDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 6 OF 2015

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th April, 2015]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 10, 2015

1Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

2—PL 006101—2000 (10/2014)

[Certified on 06th April, 2015]

L.D. — O. Inc. 23/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYARELIGIOUS AND BUDDHIST EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a society called and known as the “MadahapolaSri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist EducationalDevelopment Foundation”, has heretofore been establishedin Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with the saidsociety according to the rules agreed to by its members.

AND WHEREAS the said society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Madahapola SriRatnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist EducationalDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theMadahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and BuddhistEducational Development Foundation (hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religiousand Buddhist Educational Development Foundation

Incorporation ofthe Madahapola SriRatnapalaramayaReligious andBuddhistEducationalDevelopmentFoundation.

Preamble.

Short Title.

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

2

(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to bring about moral and economical progressamongst the adherents of the Buddhist faith;

(b)to assist for the quantitative and qualitativedevelopment of Buddhist Bhikkus in historicalYapahuwa area;

(c)to obtain advisory and financial assistance frombhikku organizations, governmental organizations,non-governmental Organizations, SasanaDevelopment Fund of the Dalada Maligawa, SriSiddartha Saranankara Welfare Foundation ofMalwathu Maha Viharaya and from foreign sources;

(d)to construct a building complex with residentialfacilities for about one hundred bhikkus, endowedwith facilities for the development of activitiesrelating to Buddhism;

(e)to create a life style based on righteous employmentamongst the adherents of the Buddhist faith withthe assistance of relevant authorities;

Objects of theCorporation.

3Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

(f)to provide various facilities to the adherents of theBuddhist faith through temples based on theconcept “from temple to people”;

(g)to take necessary steps to lead the youth amongstthe adherents of the Buddhist faith towards arighteous way of life guided by moral principles;

(h)to take measures to eradicate the drug addictionwhich is a social menace;

(i)to encourage the commencement of pre-schools intemple premises for the adherents of the Buddhistfaith and to implement programmes for children tolead a religious life; and

(j)to take necessary steps to commence dhammaschools in temples where dhamma schools are notconducted.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a)The Board of the Foundation holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporationuntil the first Board is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

Corporationto ensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartmentof theGovernmentor Province.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

4

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of anoffice bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules ofthe Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovateand otherwise obtain lands or buildings whichmay be required for the purposes of the Corporationand to deal with or dispose of the same as maybe deemed expedient with a view to promoting theobjects of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or withoutsecurities and to receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind:

Powers of theCorporation.

5Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain, and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation; and

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation.

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

6

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be follwed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Board or any sub- Boardthereof, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and inlike manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

Rules of theCorporation.

7Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Government Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich names, addresses and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means–

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andauditing.

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

8

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs and to the Registrarof Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed underthe Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registrationand Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expirationof six months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundationexisting on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Foundation on that dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition orotherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the rulesof the Corporation made under section 7, with power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of, the same.

Annual Report.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

9Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence oftwo members of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is bythe rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution at ageneral meeting by the majority of votes of the memberspresent.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Saving of therights of theRepublic .

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious andBuddhist Educational Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015

10

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.