PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PREMADASA HEGODA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 71 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th December, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 18, 2009

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20091

[Certified on 18th December 2009]

L. D. — O. (INC.) 34/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PREMADASA HEGODA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known asthe “Premadasa Hegoda Foundation” has been formed inSri Lanka, for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidassociation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Premadasa HegodaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 71 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of thePremadasa Hegoda Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate withperpetual succession, under the name and style of the“Premadasa Hegoda Foundation” (hereinafter referred to asthe “ Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,with full power and authority to have and use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to establish and maintain welfare centres for destituteand displaced children ;

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe PremadasaHegodaFoundation.

Preamble.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20092

(b)to take care of disabled, deformed and mentallyretarded children and to arrange for the future welfareof these children and to aid in this regard ;

(c)to initiate vocational courses needed for mentallyretarded or deformed or displaced children and toprovide for their educational needs ;

(d)to establish and maintain vocational trainingcentres in collaboration with local and foreigninstitutions ;

(e)to develop cordiality and corporation between thisCorporation and social workers, scientists,philanthropists and local and foreign welfaresocieties having social objectives ;

(f)to construct buildings necessary for the use of theCorporation as well as the use of the personscomming from abroad for the benefit of theCorporation and to supply and maintain facilitiesand equipment for such purposes ;

(g)to teach youth values and proper behaviour whichwould mould their character ;

(h)to assist the children in every respect so that theybecome good citizens of the country ;

(i)to establish and maintain pre-schools for the benefitof low income families and to conduct courses forthe training of preschool teachers ;

(j)to promote traditional cultural arts by supplyingmaterial and providing facilities and by encouragingand protecting the interests of the artists and theirwelfare ;

(k)to organize cultural exchange programmes withother countries ;

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20093

(l)to assist in the conservation of the natural resourcesof Sri Lanka and protection of the endangeredspecies, animals, birds, fish and reptiles and provideall assistance to the relevant institutions ;

(m)to organize seminars, workshops, projects anddiscussions and to maintain relations with local andforeign institutions in this field ; and

(n)to print, publish and distribute books, journalsleaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation is carried out without distinction based onrace, caste, religion language, sex or political opinion.

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act and such rules as may be madeunder section 7, be administered by a Board of Managementconsisting of the President, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer and five committee memberswho shall be appointed at a general meeting and elected inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The members of the Board first of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the members of the Board ofAdministration of the Associations holding office on the dayimmediately proceeding the date of commencement of thisAct and shall hold office until the holding of the first annualgeneral meeting of the Corporation.

5.The Board of Management shall cause a register to bemaintained in which every person who, at the date ofcommencement of this Act, is a member of the Corporationand every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall have his name inscribedin such register.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Register of themembers.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20094

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor for the furtherance of the objects of the Corporation oranyone of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, hold, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise funds and receive grants, gifts ordonations in cash or kind ;

(c)to erect or course to be erected any building orstructure on any land belonging to the Corporation ;

(d)to make draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts ;

(e)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation, in such a manneras the Board of Management may think fit ;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditionsaffecting any movable or immoveble property ;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the Corporation ; and

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurpose of the Corporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20095

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any General meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for the following matters :—

(a)classification of membership, fees payable by eachclass of members, their admission, withdrawal,expulsion or resignation ;

(b)election of the Board of Management, or vacationof, or removal as office bearers and powers, duties,functions and conduct of the Board of Management ;

(c)appointment, employment and dismissal of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation their powers, duties, functions andconduct and the payment of remuneration to them ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at, and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Corporation, Boardof Management, or any sub-committee thereof,filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct ofbusiness thereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Board of Management and theCorporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amendedaltered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20096

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and thefinancial year shall be the calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by theCorporation.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 7, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

Audit andAccounts.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20097

10.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to,subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association,on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

11.If upon the winding up or dissolution of theCorporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debtsand liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shallnot be distributed among the members of the Corporation,but shall be given or transferred to some other association orassociations having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such association or associations shall be determinedby the members of the Corporation at or immediately beforethe time of such dissolution of the Corporation.

12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident of the Corporation or his absence two other personsduly authorized by the Board of Management who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution ofthe Corporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 71 of 20098

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.