PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 03, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 31st August, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

LASANTHA ALAGIYAWANNAFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 45 OF 2009

1Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

2—PL 004155—3,250 (07/2009)

[Certified on 31st August, 2009]

L. D. — O. (Inc.) 25/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LASANTHA ALAGIYAWANNA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “LasanthaAlagiyawanna Foundation” has heretofore been formed inMahara and Aththanagalla for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting the objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application :

BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Lasantha AlagiyawannaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the LasanthaAlagiyawanna Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of “LasanthaAlagiyawanna Foundation” and by that name may sue andbe sued with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to give physical and qualitative assistance andencouragement to schools and to enable the schoolchildren to achieve the required educationalqualification;

Short title.

Incorporationof theLasanthaAlagiyawannaFoundation.

Preamble.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

(b)to conduct special services for needy school childrenand to offer assistance by way of scholarships, libraryfacilities and other necessary support for studies;

(c)to organize educational programmes and classes toassist students to prepare for public and otherexaminations;

(d)to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars onthe matters of educational interest;

(e)to make provision to exhibit, imporve and appreciatethe cultural talents of school children and awardcertificates to talented school children;

(f)to implement a special training programme to buildup a generation of children who appreciate valuesand good conduct on practical terms;

(g)to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars totrain teachers of the Daham schools and the pre-schools and to provide incentives to inaugurate pre-schools with the approval of the relevant provincialeducational authorities if so required by law;

(h)to conduct leadership camps and workshops toschool children to build up leadership qualities andto provide necessary skills to equip them for practicalliving;

(i)to conduct a practical programmes which developpatriotism in order to develop a generation of schoolchildren with physical capability through aprogramme of sanitation, health habits and aprogramme for sports and physical education;

(j)to organize educational tours, shramadanas andworkshops, aimed at protecting Sri Lanka’s heritage,environment and forestry;

3Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

(k)to support and encourage the services provided bysenior citizens movements ;

(l)to give full support and assistance to informaleducation programmes, special educationprogrammes and elders education programmes;

(m)to encourage farmers engaged in traditional andexport oriented agricultural activities and toconduct various activities to enable them to expandtheir knowledge;

(n)to assist in various programmes implemented forgranting necessary facilities for the “Ranaviru”;

(o)to take action to provide self employment andnecessary support and training to the unemployedyouth community;

(p)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreigninstitutions which have similar objects;

(q)to establish housing projects for the low incomegroups, and to provide for their betterment;

(r)to develop religious places belonging to all thereligions;

(s)to assist needy people to obtain health facilities;

(t)to assist in the activities of societies established ingrama niladhari divisions; and

(u)to assist and act for the welfare of the pensioners.

(2) In the implementation of the objectives of this Act asare specified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensurethat such implementation is carried out without distinctionbased on race, caste, religion, language, sex or politicalopinion.

4Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation,made under section 6, be administered by a Board of Directorsconsisting of the Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and elevenmembers elected in accordance with such rules.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), thefounder member of the Foundation, Hon. LansanthaAlagiyawanna shall be the first Chairman of the Board ofDirectors.

(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Board of Administration of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

(4) A member of the Board of Directors shall unless hevacates his office earlier by death or resignation, hold officefor a period of four years reckoned from the date of hiselection.

(5) If any member of the Board of Directors vacates hisoffice prior to the expiry of his term, his successor elected inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation shall hold officeonly for the unexpired term of office of the member who hesucceeds.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtheranceof its objects or any one of them, including the power toacquire and hold property movable or immovable, to open,operate and close bank account, to borrow or raise moneyswith or without security, to receive or collect grants ordonations, to invest its funds, to erect any building orstructures on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage,employ and dismiss, officers and servants required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

5Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any General Meeting of the members and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the memebers presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand membership fees payable ;

(b)procedure to be observed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Directors, the quorum for such meetingsand the exercise and performance of their powersand duties ;

(c)the appointment, powers, duties and functions ofthe various officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(d)qualifications required to become a member of theCorporation and of the Board of Directors ;

(e)election of Board of Directors; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all debts

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation.

6Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to thefoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard of Directors shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property both movable or immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and be subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6 and the Corporation shall have full power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

10.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation beliable to make any contribution exceeding the amounts ofsuch membership fees as may be due from him to theCorporation.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of its debts and liabilities anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation, but shall be given ortransferred to some other institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is, orare by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any

Fund of theCorporation.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

7Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

income or property among its members such institution orinstitutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before, the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

12.(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shallcause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received andexpended by the Corporation.

(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by a qualified auditoror auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theChairman and the Secretary of the Corporation, who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

Seal of theCorporation.

Audit andaccounts of theCorporation.

8Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

9Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.