PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PAHIYANGALA CONSERVATION ANDDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 24 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24, 2009

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20091

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

L.D.—O. INC. 22/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PAHIYANGALA CONSERVATION ANDDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Pahiyangala Conservation and Development Foundation”has heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and matters connectedwith the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it is for the public advantage to grant suchapplication :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the PahiyangalaConservation and Development Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 24 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are the members of thePahiyangala Conservation and Development Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

2—PL 003098—3,250 (07/2008)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe PahiyangalaConservationandDevelopmentFoundation.

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20092

3.The General objects for which the Corporation isestablished are hereby declared to be—

(a)to preserve the historical monuments and culturalobjects within the Pahiyangala Sacred City;

(b)to improve and maintain all buildings, electricity,water supply and other sanitary services withinthe precinct of the Pahiyangala Sacred City;

(c)to give necessary assistance in the religious andeducational research activities conducted within thePahiyangala Sacred City; and

(d)to maintain friendly relations with other Buddhistorganisations and religious Organisations inSri Lanka and abroad.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to doperform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofthe objects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrowor raise money with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations from local or foreign sources, to investits funds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers andservants required for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporatoin shall, subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 6 of this Actbe administered by a Board of Trustees (hereinafter referredto as “the Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer and two othermembers elected in accordance with the rules of theCorporation.

(2) The first Board of the Corporatoin shall consist of themembers of the Board of Trustee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20093

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1) the Chief Priest of the Pahiyangala Temple shall be thefirst Chairman of the Board.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members persent and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of, or removal from office of officebearers and their powers and functions ;

(c)the election of the members of the Board, theirpowers, duties and functions and the terms of officeof members of the Board ;

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Board the time, place,notice and agenda of such meetings, the quorumtherefore and the conduct of business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation made under this section.

Rules of theCorporation.

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20094

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,donation, testamentary dispositions, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants on account of the Corporationshall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one ormore Banks as the Board shall determine.

(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise,discharge and performance of the powers, duties and functionsof the Corporation under this Act shall be paid out of thefund of the Corporation.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all

Audit andAccounts.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20095

debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchases, grant,gift, testementary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theChariman, the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Such Instituteor Institutes shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at the time of dissolution or immediately before,the dissolution of the Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Pahiyangala Conservation and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 20096

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.