PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 3.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 07, 2014

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

PHILIP GUNAWARDENACOMMEMORATIVE SOCIETY(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 4 OF 2014

1Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

2—PL 006569— 2,950 (02/2014)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

L.D.—O.(Inc.) 11/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PHILIP GUNAWARDENACOMMEMORATIVE SOCIETY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “PhilipGunawardena Commemorative Society” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Society according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Philip GunawardenaCommemorative Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Society”) and shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Philip Gunawardena CommemorativeSociety” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) andby that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to research into, foster and promote the philosophyand thinking of the late Mr. Philip Gunawardena;

Incorporation ofthe PhilipGunawardenaCommemorativeSociety.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(b)to collect and preserve available materialsconnected with the philosophy of the late Mr.Philip Gunawardena, including the speeches made,books and articles written on such philosophy;

(c)to carry out various commemorative activities inmemory of the late Mr. Philip Gunawardena;

(d)to act in collaboration with Philip GunawardenaFoundation Trust established under the PublicTrustee ;

(e)to foster and promote with reference to thephilosophy of the late Mr. Philip Gunawardena,social, educational and cultural development of thedisadvantaged and marginalized groups,particularly the youth of Sri Lanka;

(f)to propagate the memory and the philosophy of thelate Mr. Philip Gunawardena by—

(i) assisting the relevant authorities to establishand maintain institutions such as orphanagesand homes for the aged;

(ii) assisting the relevant authorities to establishand maintain vocational training institutions,with a view to promoting self employmentamong the unemployed youth and to assistsuch youth to engage successfully in businessventures by providing them with financial,marketing and other necessary assistance;

(iii) assisting the relevant authorities to establishand maintain institutions such as preschoolsand child care centers and to formulate andimplement programmes for the welfare of suchchildren;

3Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(iv) assisting the relevant authorities to establishand maintain libraries and to carry outprogrammes on the importance of patronizingsuch libraries;

(v) assisting the relevant authorities to establishand maintain educational institutions;

(vi) granting scholarships and bursaries todeserving students; and

(vii) the provision of food, clothing, shelter andother forms of relief to needy people.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Committee ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”)consisting of such number of office bearers as may bespecified by the rules of the Corporation made undersection 7.

(2) (a) The Committee of the Society that holds office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Committee of the Corporationuntil the first Committee is appointed or elected in themanner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind :

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

5Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(c)to make, draw, acccept, discount, endorse,negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange,cheques, promissory notes and other negotiableinstruments and to open, operate, maintain and closeaccounts in any bank;

(d)to enter into contracts, partnerships or agreementswith any Government Department, ProvincialCouncil or non Governmental organization or anyother person or institution whether in Sri Lanka orabroad with a view to promoting the objects of theCorporation ;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Committee may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust and conditions affectingany real or personal property with a view topromoting the objects of the Corporation;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation ;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of thecorporation ;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(j)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

6Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(k)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for all or any of thefollowing matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee or anysub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of thebusiness thereat;

(e)the qualifactions and disqualifications to bemembers of the Committee and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its’ objectand dissolution of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

7Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation made under thissection.

8.(1) The Committee shall maintain a register ofmembers in which name, address and other essential detailsof the members shall be inscribed.

(2) No member shall exercise his vote in person or byproxy or stand election for any office unless he has paid hissubscription and other dues before the annual generalmeeting of the Corporation.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,donations, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for andon account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one ormore banks approved by the Committee to the credit of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

Fund of theCorporation.

Register ofmembers.

8Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “Qualified Auditor”means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of theinstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,or of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the council of suchinstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theinstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant issued by the Council of suchinstitute.

11.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Soceity on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

12.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

Debts due byand pyable tothe Society.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

9Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

13.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

14.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee of the Corporation who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by suchCommittee.

15.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution, at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

16.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

10Philip Gunawardena Commemorative Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.