PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29, 2006

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION OFSRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 34 OF 2006

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20061

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

L. D. —O. Inc. 32/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION OFSRI LANKA

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the “NationalKidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been formedfor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting allobjects and matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the National KidneyFoundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “NationalKidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as“the Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) withperpetual succession, under the name and style of “theNational Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” and by that namemay sue and be sued in all courts, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and alter the sameat its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to conduct public awareness programs, seminars,workshops and discussions to educate the publicon Kidney diseases and timely treatment of thedisease;

Generalobjects of theFoundation.

Incorporationof theNationalKidneyFoundationofSri Lanka.

2National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006

(b)to assist patients seeking treatment for kidneyailments including dialysis and kidney transplant ;

(c)to raise funds from various sources to supportpatients in treatment and after care;

(d)to join or work together with any other associaitonor institution in Sri Lanka or abroad having similarobjectives so as to assist persons suffering fromdisease affecting the kidney;

(e)to encourage and facilitate researchers doingresearch on diseases affecting the kidney; and

(f)generally to do any act or thing which is necessaryto achieve the above objects.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act, and any rule that may be madethereunder, the administered by a Board of Managementconsisting of four members.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Management ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

(3) The Board shall cause a register to be maintained inwhich every person who on the date of passing of this Act,and every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of theCorporation hereby constituted shall have his name inscribed.

5.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting at suchmeeting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, on all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)the classification of members and membership feespayable, their admission, withdrawal or expulsionfrom membership ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20063

(b)the election of members to the Board ofManagement and its powers and duties;

(c)the election of office bearers, their term of officeresignation from, vactation of or removal from officeand their powers;

(d)the duties and functions of the officers, agents andservants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be followed in the summoning andholding of meetings of the Board, the quorumtherefor and the conduct of business thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, including its fund;

(g)the managment of the affairs of the Corporation andthe accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amendedaltered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

6.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold property both movable and immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty which were in the name of the Foundation, on orbefore the commencement of this Act, shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to therules of the Corporation. Any such property held by theCorporation upon a trust shall be subject to the provisions ofany written law relating to trusts.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable orimmovable.

4National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006

7.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the singing of any person as a witness.

8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and itshall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributionsor fees in cash or kind.

(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name ofthe Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in anysuitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation asmay be decided by the Board of Management.

(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of thefund of the Corporation.

9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor as may be determined by the Board ofManagement.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body corporate or of anyother persons.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Fund of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudits.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andotherpersons.

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 20065

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.