PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SAMODA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 76 OF 2009

Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 20091

Short title.

2 —PL 004489 — 3,090 (10/2009)

Incorporationof theSamodaFoundation.

Preamble.

[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]

L. D. —O. (Inc.) 7/2008

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMODA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the “SamodaFoundation” has heretofore been established for the purposeof effectually carrying out and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the benefit of the public togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Samoda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 76 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “SamodaFoundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) orshall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be and become a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “SamodaFoundation” and by that name may sue, and be sued, withfull power and authority to have, and use, a common seal andthe alter same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a) to provide basic facilities to the needy people;

(b) to provide necessary facilities to students who arestudying amidst financial and other materialhardships;

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 2009

(c) to provide seeds, fertilizer, agricultural equipmentsand to develop agriculture, and livestock; and

(d) to assist the people without housing facilities tobuild houses and to obtain loans for that purpose.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe rules made under section 6 be administered by a Board ofDirectors consisting of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman,Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Chief Organizer andone Committee Member.

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallbe the Board of Directors of the Foundation, holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to open,operate and close bank accounts and to borrow and obtainloans with or without security, to receive and collect grantsand donations, to invest its funds necessary for the fulfillmentof objects of the Corporation to employ and dismiss officersand employees of the Corporation, and to perfrom anyother act necessary for the promotion of objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any Annual General meeting of the Corporation andby a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for any one ofthe following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, fees payable byeach class of members, their admission, expulsionor resignation ;

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 20093

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation from,or vacation of or removal from office of office-bearersand their power, conduct and duties ;

(c)the powers, conduct and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be observed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Directors, the time, place notice and agendaof such meetings, the quorum thereof and theconduct of business threat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications formembership of the Board of Directors of theCorporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2) The rules of the Corporation may be amended, altered,added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner, asa rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid or discharged by the Corporation and all debtsdue to and subscriptions and fees payable to the Foundationon the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act.

Debts due andpayable to theFoundation.

4Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 2009

8.The Corporation shall be capable in law to acceptand hold any movable or immovable property which may bevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purpose of this Act, with power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoney received by way of gift, testamentary disposition,transfer, donation, contributions, or fees shall be depositedin the name of the Corporation one or more banks as may bedetermined by the Board of Directors.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act, shall be paid out of the Fund.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property and all its debts and liabilities are settled,such properties shall not be distributed among the membersof the Corporation. Such properties shall be given over ortransferred to other institution or institutions whoseobjectives are similar to the objectives of this Corporationand that have rules that prevent any income or property frombeing distributed among the membership. Such institutionor institutions shall be determined by the Members of theCorporation at, or immediately before, the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, andall other transactions of the Corporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audits andaccounts.

Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 20095

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified Auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law and possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman or Secretary of the Corporation who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body, politic or corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

6Samoda Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 76 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.