PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KOSALA DULLEWA FOUNDATIONFOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 39 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th July, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24, 2009

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20091

[Certified on 24th July, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC) 15/2006.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KOSALA DULLEWA FOUNDATION FORCHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS

WHEREAS an association called and known as the“Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs”has been formed for the purpose of effectually carrying outand transacting all objects and matters connected with thesaid Association according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Kosala DullewaFoundation for Children with Special Needs (Incorporation)Act, No. 39 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as are now members of the KosalaDullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs(hereinafter referred to as “the Foundation”) and such otherpersons as shall hereinafter be admitted as members of theCorporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate withperpetual succession, under the name and style of “KosalaDullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that namemay sue and be sued, with full power and authority to haveand to use a common seal and to alter the same at its will andpleasure.

2—PL 003161—3,450 (08/2008)

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe KosalaDullewaFoundation forChildren withSpecial Needs.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20092

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to help underprivileged children having physicaland mental disabilities irrespective of their caste,creed, nationality or religion, so as to make themuseful citizens who could make a contribution tosociety and to the country ;

(b)to assist in the well-being of disabled children andyoung adults upto the age of twenty five years ;

(c)to conduct and hold seminars, meetings, trainingprograms and workshops to develop skills ofdisabled children and to encourage them to beindependent ;

(d)to educate and make disabled children aware oftheir abilities, disabilities and limitations withoutendangering themselves and others ;

(e)to commence self-employment projects and toengage physically and mentally disabled youth invocational training programs ;

(f)to create an awareness among parents and familymembers of disabled children and the general public,about the contribution that disabled children couldmake towards the development of the country ;

(g)to grant donations, assistance and coverage todisabled children and to other organizations havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation ;

(h)to implement projects in any part of Sri Lanka forthe benefit of the disabled children ;

(i)to collaborate with other organizations havingsimilar objects to those of the Corporation, whetherin Sri Lanka or abroad ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20093

(j)to train or cause to be trained in Sri Lanka or abroadat the expense of the Corporation, any childwhomsoever approved by the Corporation, for thefurtherance of the objects of the Corporation ;

(k)to initiate, organize and conduct lectures, seminars,symposia, workshops, exhibitions and otherappropriate programs and activities in order topromote the objects of the Corporation ;

(l)to train and to organize sports events for disabledchildren in Sri Lanka or abroad ;

(m)to organize entertainment events for disabledchildren ;

(n)to propose to relevant authorities legal reforms touplift the rights of disabled persons ;

(o)to institute legal proceedings in appointing curatorsor guardians for disabled children at the cost of theCorporation ; and

(p)to establish book shops and libraries.

4. (1) The management, control and administration of theaffairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act and of the rules of the Corporation made under section7, be administered by a Board of Management consisting ofsuch number of office bearers as may be provided for in suchrules and elected in accordance therewith.

(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Executive Committee ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act and whoshall hold office until a new Board of Management is electedunder the rules of the Corporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20094

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtheranceof the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, andsubject to the rules of Corporation, to open, operate and closebank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or withoutsecurity, to receive or collect grants and donations, to investits funds and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers andservants as are required for the purpose of achieving theobjects of the Corporation.

6.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Corporation.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka or any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountant of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

Audit ofaccounts.

General powersof theCorporation.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20095

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime at any general meeting of the Corporation and by thevotes of not less than two-thirds of the members present andvoting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawalor expulsion of members, the election of the office-bearersand for the performance of the duties of such office-bearers,agents, officers and servants of the Corporation, for theprocedure to be followed in the transaction of business bythe Corporation and the Board of Management and generally,for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may ata like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,amended or rescinded.

(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

8.The income and property of the Corporation shall beapplied solely towards the promotion of the objects of theCorporation as set forth herein and no portion thereof shallbe paid or transferred, directly or indirectly by way ofdividend, loan, bonus, profit or otherwise, to the members ofthe Corporation.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property both movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and be subject to the rules of the Corporation undersection 7 it shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,including subscriptions, fees and contributions payable tothe Foundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Application ofincome andproperty of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Rules of theCorporation.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20096

11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporationwho shall sign their names to the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by its rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its or their members. Such institution orinstitutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution of theCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children withSpecial Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.