PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2007

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 28th September, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

RATNAPURA, MARAPANA SASTRODAYAFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 40 OF 2007

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20071

[Certified on 28th September, 2007]

L. D. – O. Inc. 37/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RATNAPURA, MARAPANA SASTRODAYAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the Ratnapura,Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation has heretofore beenestablished at Ratnapura, for the purpose of effectivelycarrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rules ofthe Foundation:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This act may be cited as the Ratnapura, MarapanaSastrodaya Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the “Ratnapura, Marapana SastrodayaFoundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power andauthority to have and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

3. The General objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to establish, educational centers including preschools and vocational training, centers for childrenand adults in areas where such educational facilitiesare insufficient or not available ;

Preamble.

2—PL 002228—3,300 (07/2007)

Generalobjects.

Short Title.

Incorporationof theRatnapura,MarapanaSastrodayaFoundation.

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20072

(b)to promote peace and peaceful co-existance amongstpeople ;

(c)to work for the scientific and cultural advancementof Sri Lankan society ;

(d)to liaise with other institutions having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation;

(e)to provide monetary and other assistance to youngpersons to engage in self-employments ;

(f)to provide facilities for young persons to trainthemselves in sports ;

(g)to organize discussions, conferences, debates andsimilar activities particularly for young persons;

(h)to collect and distribute books and periodicals andprovide library facilities, with a view to improvingliterarcy among people ;

(i)to provide necessary facilities and encouragementsfor young persons to enhance their inherent talentsand skills ;

(j)to establish and maintain centers for the welfare andprotection of dispaced persons and destitute persons.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise money, with or without security to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds, and to engage,employ and dismiss officers and servants required for thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20073

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, be administered by a working committeecomprising of the following :—

(a)the Executive Committee which shall consist of thePresident, Vice President, Secretary, AssistantSecretary and Treasurer ;

(b)thirteen committee members ; and

(c)an Advisory Board consisting of three eminentpersons appointed by the Executive Committeereferred to in paragraph (a).

(2) The first Working Committee of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Working Committee of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

6. It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to timeat any general meeting of majority of not less than two thirdsof their members present and voting to make rules notinconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members,for the conduct of the duties of the Working Committee, andof the various officers, agents and servants of the Corporation,for the procedure in the transaction of business and otherwisefor the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations, or contributions shall be deposited inthe name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may bedecided by the Working Committee.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Funds of theCorporation.

Power to makerules.

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20074

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exerciseand discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporationshall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.

8. All debts and liabilities of the said Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to subscriptions and contributions payableto the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

9. (1)The Working Committee shall cause properaccounts to be kept of all the moneys received and expendedby the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year and the correctness ofincome and expenditure account and balance sheet certifiedby the auditor or auditors who are the associate members ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.

10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theExecutive President or the Secretary or the Treasurer and amember who shall sign their names to the instrument in tokenof their presence and such signing shall be independent ofthe signing of any person as a witness.

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law totake and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force the time being of thesaid Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Accounts andAudit.

Seal of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold property,movable andimmovable.

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20075

be given or transferred to some other Association orAssociations, having objects similar to the objects of theCorporation and which is or are, by the rules thereof prohibitedfrom distributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such Association or Associations shall bedetermined by the members of the Corporation at, orimmediately before, the time of the dissolution of theCorporation.

13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporateor any other persons.

14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,Tamil and English texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 20076

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.