PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 33 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th July, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2011

1Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 2011

2-PL 004990—3,090 (07/2010)

[Certified on 19th July, 2011]

L.D.—O. Inc. 14/2009

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the“Sri Lanka Economic Association” has heretofore beenformed as a limited liability company under the CompaniesAct, No. 17 of 1982 and has made an application to re-registerunder Act, No. 7 of 2007 for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka EconomicAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theSri Lanka Economic Association (hereinafter referred to as“the Association”) and such other persons shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Sri LankaEconomic Association” (hereinafter referred to as “theCorporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued withfull power and authority to have and to use a common sealand alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Sri LankaEconomicAssociation.

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 20112

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to undertake, promote and facilitate studies in thefield of Economics within and outside Sri Lanka;

(b)to organize and promote research in the field ofEconomics and undertake studies and researchprojects on contract from government, private andinternational agencies or institutions;

(c)to plan and organize teaching and trainingprogrammes in the field of Economics;

(d)to train students and others in research methodologywith the idea of promoting knowledge andawareness in subjects relevant to economics;

(e)to assist in the formulation of effective socio-economic policies;

(f)to prepare and submit reports on issues relating toeconomic and social development or to preparereports on studies relating to economicdevelopment;

(g)to promote understanding, co-operation andfriendship with similar associations within andoutside Sri Lanka; and

(h)to undertake, promote and conduct on its owninitiative or in collaboration with local or foreignassociations such surveys and studies on economicand social development in the international sphereand more particularly in Sri Lanka.

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 2011

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the Corporation shall have the power todo, perform and execute all such acts and matters asnecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtheranceof the objects of the Corporation or any one of them,including the power —

(a)to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,in cash or kind;

(b)to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwisedispose of, any movable or immovable propertyand construct, maintain and alter any buildings orworks necessary or convenient for the business ofthe Corporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate and close bank accounts andborrow or raise money with or without security;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation in such manner asthe Council of Management may determine;

(e)to enter into agreements or contracts with any personor body of persons for the implementation of theseobjects;

(f)to determine the fees to be paid in respect ofregistration of different categories of membership;and

(g)appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the Corporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 20114

5.(1) The management, control and administrationof the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act and any rule that may be made under section 6,vest in a Council of Management (hereinafter referred to as“the Council”).

(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist ofthe members of the Council of the Association holding officeon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, fees payable byeach class of members, admission, withdrawal,expulsion or resignation of members and for themaintaining of a register of members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office and the powers,duties and functions of the office bearers;

(c)the appointment, powers, duties and functions andterms and conditions of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be followed at the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council, theCorporation and any sub-committee thereof,including the quorum therefor and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(e)the qualification and disqualification for membersof the Council and the Corporation; and

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 2011

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation for the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time besubject to the rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7.(1) With effect from the date of commencement ofthis Act—

(a)all property, movable or immovable, of theAssociation;

(b)all rights, powers, privileges and interests of theAssociation and all the liabilities of theAssociation;

(c)all books, accounts and documents of theAssociation;

shall vest absolutely in the Corporation.

(2) With effect from the date of commencement of thisAct and without prejudice to the generality ofsubsection (1)—

(a)all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payableto the Association shall be paid to the Corporation;

(b)all liabilities of the Association subsisting on theday immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall be deemed to bethe liabilities of the Corporation;

Vesting of theproperty etc. ofthe Associationin theCorporation.

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 20116

(c)all officers and servants of the Association on theday immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall be deemed to beofficers and servants of the Corporation;

(d)all contracts and agreements entered into for thepurposes of the Association and subsisting on theday immediately preceding date of commencementof this Act shall be deemed to be contracts andagreements entered into by the Corporation;

(e)all actions and legal proceedings instituted by oragainst the Association and pending on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall be continued and enforced as legalproceedings instituted by, or against, theCorporation.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund andit shall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributionsor fees in cash or kind.

(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the nameof the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested inany suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporationas may be decided by the Council.

(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of thefund of the Corporation.

9.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor as may be determined by the Council.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudit.

7Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 2011

(3) In this section “qualified auditor” means —

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law possesses a certificate or parcticeas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,subscriptions and contributions payable to the Associationon that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposeof this Act.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporationthere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shallnot be distributed among the members of the Corporationbut shall be given or transferred to some other instituteor institutes having objects similar to those of theCorporation, and which is or are by the rules thereofprohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its or their members. Such institution or institutionsshall be determined by the Council at or immediately beforethe dissolution of the Corporation.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theSecretary or a member of the Council as may be dulyauthorised by the Council and another member of the Council

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due andpayable to theAssociation.

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 20118

who shall sign their names on the instrument in token oftheir presence and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

13.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of annual subscription payable byhim to the Corporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

9Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)

Act, No. 33 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.