PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 9.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 2014.

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 23 OF 2014

1Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

2—PL 005736— 2,000 (07/2014)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 23rd July, 2014]

L.D.—O.(Inc.) 23/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the "NimalSiripala de Silva Foundation" has heretofore been formedfor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transactingthe objects and matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established, and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application;

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Nimal Siripala de SilvaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theNimal Siripala de Silva Foundation (hereinafter referred toas the “Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") and by thatname may sue and be sued, with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Incorporation ofthe NimalSiripala de SilvaFoundation.

2Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)to establish and maintain water supply schemes inareas where there is a scarcity of water, subject tothe provisions of section 21 of the National watersupply and Drainage Board Law No. 2 of 1974 ;

(b)to organize awareness programmes on methods tominimize to impact of natural disasters ;

(c)to provide land and houses to families who do notown land and houses, in accordance with theapplicable laws ;

(d)to assist the relevant authorities to—

(i)provide scholarships to needy studentsand youth ;

(ii)establish and maintain permanent andmobile libraries ;

(iii)promote artistic creations, sports skills andtechnical skills of students and theyouth ;

(iv)conduct classes, lectures, seminars,conferences, workshops, discussions,dialogues, educational tours andexhibitions for the students with a view toimproving their general literacy ;

(v)promote skills of the youth by grantingopportunities for training in sports,leadership, computer, media andlanguages including Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

(vi)construct buildings and provide othernecessary assistance to schools in need ofsuch assistance ;

(vii)provide food and other necessaryassistance to the poor, destitute and sickpersons ; and

(viii)establish and maintain welfare centres withsuitable facilities for the blind, deaf, dumb,aged and displaced persons.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, caste, sex political opinion, place ofbirth or any one of such grounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict berween thework of the Corporation and any work being carried out bythe Government or any Provincial Council or StatutoryBody.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Management of the Foundationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall function as the Board ofthe Corporation until the first Board is appointed or electedin the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork of theGovernment orany ProvincialCouncil.

4Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment ro re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower :—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation and todeal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpendient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind :

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accouts inany bank ;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine ;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation ;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as amybe determined by the Corporation ;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha veiw to promoting the objectives of theCorporation ;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation ;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expendientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members present

Rules of theCorporation.

6Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members ;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation ;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its’ objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequest,donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for andon account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one ormore banks approved by the Board to the credit of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”means —

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchinstitute; or

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

8Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchinstitute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Social Service and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the Corporation during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

Annual Report.

Debts due byand payable tothe foundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

9Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

14.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the Corporation.

15.(1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which, is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its or members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhalal text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Propertyremaining ordissolution.

Seal of thecorporation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

10Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.