PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SAMMANTHURAI THABLEEKUL ISLAMARABIC COLLEGE (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 53 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th September, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 02, 2009

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20091

[Certified on 28th September, 2009]

L.D.—O. (INC) 23/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMMANTHURAI THABLEEKUL ISLAMARABIC COLLEGE

WHEREAS an Institution called and known as the“Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College” hasheretofore been established in Sammanthurai for the purposeof effectually carrying out and transacting all objectives andmatters connected with the said Institution :

AND WHEREAS the said Institution has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the serveral objectivesand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the SammanthuraiThableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No.53of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theSammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (hereinafterreferred to as the “Institution”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)with perpetual succession under the name and style of“Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College” and bythat name may sue and be sued with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and to alter the same at itswill and pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation oftheSammanthuraiThableekul IslamArabic College.

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20092

3.The general objectives for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to provide better facilities to the adherents of theIslamic faith for spiritual education based on Islamicprinciples ;

(b)to provide necessary training in the Islamic faith tothose educated as Ulamaas and to perform servicein Thahwa which inculcates pious habits and shunsevil things ;

(c)to provide leadership training to those who completetheir spiritual education under paragraph (a) and tofollow the Islamic way of life individually and tolead the Islamic Society in the Islamic way of life ;

(d)to provide facilities to the adherents of the Islamicfaith to learn other arts necessary to achieve theseobjectives ;

(e)to provide vocational training to the adherentsof the Islamic faith in order to enhance theirlivelihood ; and

(f)to provide self-training to the adherents of the Islamicfaith in order to promote social, cultural, educationaland economic development.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten Law, the Corporation shall have the power —

(a)to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiableinstruments and to open, operate, maintainand close accounts in any bank or banks ;

(b)to receive or collect grants and donations incash or in kind from local or foreign sources ;

Generalobjectives of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20093

(c)to invest all funds vested in or owned by theCorporation on securities or to use them forpurchasing lands, buildings, goods or furniturerequired by the Corporation ;

(d)to construct buildings or to get buildingsconstructed in the Corporation’s own land orany other land held by the Corporation ;

(e)to select a Board of Sponsors to advise, tofund the Corporation and to achieve theobjectives of the Corporation ; and

(f)to do all such other things that are incidentalor conducive to the attainment of theobjectives of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules made under section 7 of this Act, be administered by aBoard of Directors consisting twenty five members electedin accordance in with rules of the Corporation.

(2)The First Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the Members of the Board of Directors of theInstitution holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) There shall be a General Council consisting ofsuch number of members elected or nominated in accordancewith the rules made under section 7 of this Act.

(2)It shall be lawful to the General Council to adviceto the Board of Directors in all matters.

(3)The Board of Directors shall subject to the approvalof the General Council exercise, perform and discharge itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General Council.

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20094

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at an annual general meeting or at any general meetingand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters :—

(a)classification of membership, fees payable by eachclass of member, their admission, expulsion orresignation;

(b)election of the Board of Directors and GeneralCouncil, resignation from, vacation of or removalfrom office as office bearers and powers, duties andconduct of the Board of Directors and GeneralCouncil;

(c)appointment, dissmissal, powers, duties, functionsand conduct of the various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board of Directorsand General Council, the Corporation or any subCommittee thereof, filling of vacancies, notices andagenda of such meetings, the quorum therefore andthe conduct of business thereat;

(2) The rules made by the Corporation under subsection(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a likemeeting and in like manner as a rule made under subsection(1) from time to time, at any annual general meeting.

(3) Every rule made, altered, added, amended or rescindedunder this section shall be approved by the GeneralCouncil.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Institution on thedate of commencement of this Act, shall be paid by theCorporation hereby constituted and all debts due to, and

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Corporation.

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20095

subscriptions and contributions payable to the Institutionon that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposeof this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

10.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, fees or grants for and onaccount of the Corporation shall be deposited in the name ofthe Corporation in one or more banks as the Board ofDirectors shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund any expenditureincurred by the Corporation in the exercise, perform anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Board of Directors shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Funds of theCorporation.

Accounts andaudits .

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20096

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of thePresident, Secretary and Treasurer, who shall sign theirnames to instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

13.If upon the winding up or the dissolution of theCorporation there remains after the satisfaction of all debtsand liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shallnot be distributed among the members of the Corporation,but shall be given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions, having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers. Such institution or institutions shall be determinedby members of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining on thedissolution of theCorporation.

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.