PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF QUANTITY SURVEYORS, SRI LANKA(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 20 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st June, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22nd, 2007

1Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

[Certified on 21st June, 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 4/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF QUANTITYSURVEYORS, SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as “The Instituteof Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all matters connected with the saidInstitute according to the rules hitherto in force :

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and mattersfor which it was established, and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application :

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of QuantitySurveyors, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.20 of 2007.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are Fellow Members andAssociate Members of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors,Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Institute”) andhereafter be admitted as Corporate Members of the Instituteof Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka shall hereafter be admittedas Members of the Corporation hereby Constituted(hereinafter referred to as“the Corporation”) and shall be andbecome a body corporate with perpetual succession underthe name and style of the “Institute of Quantity Surveyors,Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue and be sued , with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and alterthe same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofInstitute ofQuantitySurveyors,Sri Lanka.

2Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare,rights and privileges of the profession and interest ofthe public in relation to the profession of QuantitySurveyors ;

(b)to advise and communicate with public authoritieson matters relating to Quantity Surveying ;

(c)to arbitrate any dispute on Quantity Surveying whichmay be referred to the Corporation ;

(d)to organize lectures and discussions and to publishbooks and other materials in order to disseminatethe knowledge on Quantity Surveying and relatedsubjects ;

(e)to encourage the study of law and practice relatingto Quantity Surveying ;

(f)to create and offer awards and prizes for achievementsin the field of Quantity Surveying ;

(g)to organize, supervise and control the admission tomembership of the Corporation, to undertake andregulate the professional education and training ofpersons desiring to do Quantity Surveying, toprescribe and approve courses of studies andqualifying examinations for membership of theCorporation, to conduct or provide for theconducting of such courses and examinations and tocollaborate with recognized educational institutionsfor the furtherance of education in the field ofQuantity Surveying ; and

(h)to prescribe the qualifications and disqualificationsfor membership of the Corporation and the standardsof professional conduct for members of theCorporation and to secure adherence thereto.

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power —

(a)to establish and maintain a library and the collectionof maps, models, drawings, designs and othermaterials and to improve the same;

(b)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwisealienate, encumber or dispose of any immovableproperty for the purpose of the Corporation ;

(c)to publish journals, monographs, books andperiodicals for disseminating information onQuantity Surveying ;

(d)to collaborate with, assist, receive assistance from,and develop links with, other persons, agencies andorganizations in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation ;

(e)to accept any gift, endowment or bequest and to carryout any trusts attached to any such gift, endowmentor bequest ;

(f)to appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss, officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation and to prescribe their terms andconditions of services ;

(g)to borrow any moneys required for the purposes ofthe Corporation upon such terms and on suchsecurities as the Corporation may think fit ;

(h)to invest its funds, create and administer trusts and tomaintain current, deposit and savings accounts inany Bank ; and

(i)to do all such lawful things as are incidental orconducive to the attainment of the objects of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

4Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

5.(1) The management, control and administration ofthe affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisionsof this Act and rules to be made under the Act, be vested in aGoverning Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Council”)consisting of office bearers and such other members as maybe elected or appointed in accordance with the rules of theCorporation, to be made in compliance with the provisionsof the section 7 of this Act.

(2)The first Council of the Corporation shall consist ofthe members of the Council of the Institute holding office onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.The Council shall maintain a Register of Members inwhich every person who on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act is a member of the Institute andevery person duly admitted a member of the Corporationshall have his name inscribed.

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not lessthan two- thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, andany other written law for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)classification of membership, fees payable by eachclass of members and procedure to be followed inthe admission, withdrawal, expulsion or resignationof members ;

(b)constitution and election of the Council, term ofoffice, resignation or removal from office or vacationof office of the office bearers, and powers, duties andFunctions of the Council ;

(c)powers, duties and functions of the various officers,agents and servants of the Corporation andtheir appointment, remuneration, dismissal andtermination of office ;

Register ofMembers.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

(d)the procedure to be observed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and theCouncil and any sub-committee thereof, includingthe quorum therefor and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(e)qualification and disqualification for membershipin the Corporation and in the Council ;

(f)administration and management of the property ofthe Corporation; and

(g)generally for management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2)The rules of the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under this section.

(3)Every member of the Corporation shall, upon thecoming into operation of this Act, be subject to the rules tobe made from time to time by the Corporation.

8.All property, movable and immovable, acquired orheld by the Corporation and all moneys paid to or receivedby the Corporation under this Act shall be held, used andapplied by the Corporation in accordance with the rules tobe made under section 7 of this Act for the furtherance of itsobjects.

9. The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received hitherto or hereafter by way of gift, bequest,donation, subscription and contribution, by and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theCorporation in one or more banks as the Council shalldetermine.

10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books ofaccount to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets andliabilities and other transactions of the Corporation.

Property of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudit.

6Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

(5) The Annual Report of the Council shall include thestatement of accounts, the balance sheet and the auditorsreport prepared for a period of twelve months commencingon the first day of April each year and ending on the thirty-first day of March of the following year.

11.The financial year of the Corporation shallcommence on first day of April in each year and end onthirty-first day of March in the following year.

12. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid or discharged by the Corporation and all debtsdue to, and subscriptions and fees payable to the Institute onthat day, shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute.

Financial Year.

7Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

13. (1) Every member of the Corporation who possess thequalifications specified in the rules to be made under section7 of this Act, shall be entitled to take and use the title“Chartered Quantity Surveyor”.

(2) Every member of the Corporation, who is registeredas a Fellow Member shall be entitled to use the abbreviateddesignation “F.I.Q.S.SL” after his name.

(3) Every member of the Corporation who is registered asan Associate Member of the Corporation shall be entitled touse the abbreviated designation “A.I.Q.S.SL” after his name.

(4) Where majority of the partners or directors of a firm orCompany of Quantity Surveyors who possess thequalifications to be specified in the rules to be made undersection 7 of this Act, are members of the Corporation, suchfirm or Company may be permitted by the Council to use thetitle “Chartered Quantity Surveyor” or “Chartered QuantitySurveyors” as the case may be, upon a request made in thatbehalf by such firm or company to the Council.

14.The Council may appoint Attorneys-at-law, Bankersof the Corporation, any agent or such other persons as may berequired for the purposes of the Corporation and may rescindsuch appointments at any time.

15.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of theSecretary or a member of the Council who may be dulyauthorised by the Council and another member of the Councilwho shall sign their names on the instrument in token of theirpresence and such signing shall be independent of the signingof any person as a witness.

16.No Member of the Corporation shall, for thepurpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of theCorporation, or for any other purpose, be liable to makeany contribution exceeding the amount of annualsubscription payable by him to the Corporation.

Use of titles.

Attorneys -at-law, bankers andagents.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

The seal of theCorporation.

8Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007

17.In the event of the dissolution or winding upof the Corporation, if there remains after the satisfactionof all its debts and liabilities and outgoings, anyproperty whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but the same shallbe given or transferred at the discretion of the Council tosome institute or institutes having objects similar to theobjects of the Corporation and which is or are by the rulesthereof prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its or their members. If such property or any part thereofcannot be disposed of in accordance with the foregoingprovisions of this section such property or part thereofshall be applied to some charitable object which shallbe determined by the Council of the Corporation.

18.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate, or any other persons.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Dissolution orwinding up.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWETHA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.