PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KALPAWRUKSHA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 42 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.11.00Postage : Rs. 50.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 28, 2014

1Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

2—PL 005787— 2900 (10/2014)

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

L.D.—O. Inc. 29/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KALPAWRUKSHA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Kalpawruksha Development Foundation” has heretoforebeen established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to byits members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application :

Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the KalpawrukshaDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 42 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theKalpawruksha Development Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Kalpawruksha Development Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authorityto have, and use a common seal and to alter the same atits pleasure.

Incorporation oftheKalpawrukshaDevelopmentFoundation.

Short title.

Preamble.

2Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Coporation.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote peace through the development ofharmony among races and individuals;

(b)to encourage the followers of Buddhist faith tosecure the environment and develop the society;

(c)to steer an individual centered society developmentprocess and specially direct the Buddhistcommunity to minimize the problems faced bychildren of the Buddhist faith;

(d)to provide for the protection, maintenance anddevelopment of the temple;

(e)to provide the resident Bhikkus with security, mealsand their daily needs;

(f)to organize religious activities in the templepremises;

(g)to lead the Buddhists both young and old to areligious way of life based on Buddhist ethics andthe observance of the five precepts;

(h)to establish and maintain a Daham School, conductexaminations, organize competitions and to provideequipments required by the Daham school;

(i)to establish and maintain a hospital in order to treatdevotees who face emergencies in the Sri Pada areawith the approval of the relevant authorities;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

(j)to assist in fulfilling the educational activities andtraining requirements of the Bhikkus ordained inthe temple;

(k)to organize religious activities, sermons, andreligious conferences for the sustenance ofBuddhism; and

(l)to organize processions, meritorious activities, almsgiving ceremonies, and other voluntary activitiesfor the development of the temple and the areaaround it based on Buddhist principles.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, theManagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a)The Board of the Foundation holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporationuntil the first Board is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs ofthe Corporation.

4Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of anoffice bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules ofthe Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The perosn elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherence of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower:—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovateand otherwise obtain lands or buildings whichmay be required for the purposes of the Corporationand to deal with or dispose of the same as maybe deemed expedient with a view to promoting theobjects of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or withoutsecurities and to receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind:

provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approved of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, in respect of allforeign grants, gifts or donations made to theCorporation.

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain, and close accountsin any bank;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:–

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

Rules of theCorporation.

6Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)The procedure to be follwed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or anysub- committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and inthe like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of thissection.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

Register ofmembers.

7Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and libilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means–

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establisehd by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Councial of such Institute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andauditing.

8Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs and to the Registrarof Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed underthe Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registrationand Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expirationof six months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease exchange or otherwise dispose of, thesame.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Annual Report.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

9Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence oftwo members of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is bythe rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution at ageneral meeting by the majority of votes of the memberspresent.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

10Kalpawruksha DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.