PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

OLAGANGALA MAHA SUDARSHANAPAROPAKARI FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 37 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2011

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20111

[Certified on 23rd August, 2011]

L.D.—O. (INC.) 13/2007.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE OLAGANGALA MAHA SUDARSHANAPAROPAKARI FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the“Olagangala Maha Sudarshana Paropakari Foundation” hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsfor which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Olagangala MahaSudarshana Paropakari Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 37 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Olagangala Maha Sudarshana Paropakari Foundation”(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of “Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

2—PL 005277—3090 (10/2010)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe OlagangalaMahaSudarshanaParopakariFoundation.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20112

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote and foster practices and moral valuesneeded for the spiritual development of theadherents of the Buddhist faith;

(b)to minimize the tension experienced by Buddhistby practicing the teachings of Buddha for relievingthe mental and emotional stress faced by them andthereby guiding them to a quiet life style;

(c)to rescue the adherents of the Buddhist faith frompetty controversies by developing co-operation andco-existence so that a wider representation isachieved in the community through theunderstanding of the human nature obtained fromBuddhist teachings by persons of whatever age limit,whether young or old;

(d)to make the Buddhist family and society a selfsufficient unit after identifying the socialindividuality that could bring about a disciplinedsociety free of caste or religious differences;

(e)to raise through the forest dwelling sect a BhikkuSociety well versed in Tripitaka Dhamma suitablein implementing programmes for the disseminationof Dhamma centred on the villages of Sri Lanka andto ensure achievement of the above objects throughdedication;

(f)to develop Dhamma Research Institutes containingTripitaka Dhamma Books and Buddhist literaturefor the benefit of the learned, both lay and clergy inSri Lanka, and to direct them to use the naturalenvironment with existing caves for the practice ofmindful meditation while providing them thenecessary facilities;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20113

(g)to provide maximum contribution for the personalitydevelopment of the Buddhist children faced withpoverty by donating financial and materialallocations for their physical and mentaldevelopment;

(h)to provide modern theoretical and practicalknowledge for those who need it in order to maintainagricultural and economic strategies productively;

(i)to develop physical and human resources needed toguide Buddhist school children to get advise andextra assistance from professionals in the field ofeducation in facing public examinations while atthe same time increasing their literacy rate;

(j)to assist the Buddhist youth interested in pursuingself-employment livelihoods to manage theirfamily economics better by providing them withvocational training and physical and financialresources needed in this regard;

(k)to act in co-operation with local and foreigninstitutions having aims and objectives similar tothose of the above corporation, and to exchangeresources and to act jointly with those institutions,whenever necessary;

(l)to print and publish books, magazines, bulletins,newspapers and periodicals needed for theaccomplishment of the objectives of the corporationand to distribute these as required;

(m)to extend full sponsorship to conduct, in Sri Lankaor overseas, seminars, discussions, workshops andgroup educational activities for the promotion ofphysical, mental, social, ethical and intellectualdevelopment activities necessary to lead a perfectlife;

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20114

(n)to conduct Buddhist religious practices with theparticipation of patients undergoing treatment athospitals and other similar institutions therebygiving them physical and mental relief and tovolunteer to render any service necessary for theirwell being;

(o)to intervene instantly to restore the pysical andmental stability of adherents of the Buddhist faithfacing various calamities including natural disastersand to actively participate in whatever measureneeded to restore them to normalcy;

(p)to promote personal independence by developingattitudes and skills needed for a stronger,determined and targeted community life by directingattention towards the use of identified potentialsof human beings for social and individualdevelopment; and

(q)to organise the welfare activities and providefacilities for the upliftment of families of thedeceased soldiers who are adherents of the Buddhistfaith.

4. (1) The Management of the affairs of the Corporationshall, subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rulesof the Corporation made under section 6, be administered bya Governing Body consisting of the residential ChiefIncumbent of the Olagangala Maha Sudarshana AranyaSenasanaya and the President, the Secretary, the Treasurer,the Assistant Secretary, the Vice President and sevenCommittee members who shall be elected at the generalmeeting by a majority of not less than two thirds of themembers present and voting.

(2) The first Governing Body of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Governing body of theFoundation, holding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20115

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise money from Governmentapproved Banks and other institutions (foreign andlocal) for the purposes of the Corporation with theapproval of the governing body;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation, in such a manneras the Governing body may think fit;

(e)to solicit and receive subscription, grants, donationsand gifts of all kinds;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons;

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister the lawful trusts and conditions affectingany real or personal property;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the Corporation; and

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurpose of the Corporation.

Powers of theCorporation toacquire property,invest funds andraise loans, etc.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20116

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a) classification of membership, their admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation;

(b) election of the Governing Body or vacation of, orremoval from office as office-bearers and powers,duties and conduct of the governing body;

(c) appointment, dismissal, powers, duties, functionsand conduct of the various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Governing Body,the Corporation or any sub-committee thereof,filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(e) the qualifications and disqualifications formembership in the Governing Body and theCorporation; and

(f) the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescineded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20117

7.The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in the name of theCorporation in one or more banks approved by the GoverningBody.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporationhereby constituted and all debts due to, and subscriptionsand contributions payable to the Foundation on such dayshall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

9.(1) The Governing Body of the Corporation shallcause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income andexpenditure, assets and liabilities and all other transactionsof the Corporation.

(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited andcertified by a qualified auditor.

(3) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such institute.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAudit.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20118

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Savings of therights of theRepublic andothers.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis, or are, by its rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its members.

11.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence ofthe Secretary, the President and Treasurer who shall sign theirnames on the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

12.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orcorporate.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Olagangala Maha Sudarshana ParopakariFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 20119

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.