PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF GEOLOGY, SRI LANKA(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 3 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 07, 2014

1Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014

2—PL 005352—2900 (11/2010)

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 12/2011.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF GEOLOGY, SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Instituteof Geology, Sri Lanka” has heretofore being established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with the saidInstitute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of Geology,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct such and so many persons as now are members of the‘Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka’(hereinafter referred to asthe “Institute”) and shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession under the name andstyle of the ‘Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka’ (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”), and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have, and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning, and forthe purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shll apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Institute ofGeology, SriLanka.

Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20142

3.(1) The general objects for which the corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)to promote the acquisition, dissemination andexchange of knowledge relating to Geology;

(b)to encourage research activities into Geologicalmatters;

(c)to assess the eligibility of candidates for admissionto various grades of membership;

(d)to regulate its professional activities and to assistin maintaining high standards in the generalconduct of its activities;

(e)to promote, maintain and uphold professional andethical principles and standards in all mattersconnected with the practice of Geology;

(f)to enhance and promote the interests and status ofthe professionals of Geology;

(g)to provide services to public and private institutionsin matters connected with the application ofGeology to activities relating to the developmentand progress of the country; and

(h)to foster co-ordination with similar professionalInstitutes in Sri Lanka and other countries infurthering the objects of the Corporation.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

Objects of theCorporation.

3Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Council (hereinafterreferred to as the “Council”) consisting of such number ofoffice bearers as may be specifid by the rules made undersection 7.

(2) (a) The Council of the Institute holding office on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall function as the Council of the Corporationuntil the first Council is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Council of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including thepatrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter the lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occourring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of and officebearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall holde office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office the member whom he succeeds.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20144

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the Corporation shall have the power todo, perform and execute all such acts and matters as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, includingthe power—

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate lands orbuildings which may be required for the purposesof the Corporation and to deal with or dispose of thesame as may be deemed expedient with a view topromoting the objects of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or without securities,and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchang, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Council may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

5Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate theservices of officers and servants of the Corporationand exercise disciplinary control over them and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the Corporation;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation, and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

Rules of theCorporation.

Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20146

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or anysub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the government Gazette.

8.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Council to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

Fund of theCorporation.

Register ofmembers.

7Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General.

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means–

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establisehd by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Environment and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A seperate Account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

Accounts andAuditing.

Annual Report.

Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 20148

12.All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Institute on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of thesame.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of theCorporation.

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of themembers of the Council who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Council as may be decided by suchCouncil.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objects

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute.

Seal of theCorporation.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

9Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014

similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rulesthereof, prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 201410

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.