PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 15, 2006

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 15th December, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

JAPAN - SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL ASSOCIATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 52 OF 2006

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20061

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporationof the Japan -Sri LankaEducationaland CulturalAssociation.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

[Certified on 15th December 2006]

L. D. O.INC-11/2003

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JAPAN - SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL ANDCULTURAL ASSOCIATION

WHEREAS an association called and known as the “Japan-Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association” hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Association according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Japan - Sri LankaEducational and Cultural Association (Incorporation) Act,No. 52 of 2006.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Japan-Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association (hereinafterreferred to as “the Association”, or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Japan-Sri Lanka Educational and CulturalAssociation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)andby that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with fullpower and authority to have and to use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to conduct courses for the teaching of foreignlanguages and to provide higher educational anddiploma courses in such studies ;

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and CulturalAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20062

(b)to conduct courses for the teaching of Sinhala, Tamiland English to foreigners ;

(c)to award certificates of merit to students whocomplete successfully, the courses being conducted;

(d)to prepare students who are following the releventcourses, for examinations conducted in therespective courses ;

(e)to conduct all courses under the supervision of aqualified and skilled staff and to have the syllabusesof all language courses prepared by the NationalInstitute of Education established by the NationalInstitute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985;

(f)to select with the approval of the respectiveMinistries of the Ministers in charge of the subjectof Vocational Training, Education and SocialServices, students with special ability tolearn respective languages and provide futuretraining to such students;

(g)to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe tobooks, papers, periodicals, magazines, commerativeissues etc. and to publish such literature and toprovide such other services as may be deemeddesirable for attaining the objects of theCorporation ;

(h)to promote, sponsor and conduct lectures,conferences, philosophical discussions, seminars,workshops, group studies, recreational activities,excursions and other such activities;

(i)to corporate and associate with other associationsor organizations which have objects similar to thoseof the Corporation; and

(j)to act as an affiliate institute of any local or foreigntechnical or vocational training institute or a

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20063

representative of such an organization and to launchCultural Exchange Programms with foreigncountries.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as arenecessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance ofany one or more of the objects of the Corporation includingthe power to open, operate and close bank accounts and toengage, employ and dismiss officers and servants as arerequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions this Act and the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, be administered by a Board of Directorsconsisting of not less than ten members including the Patron,and the Chairman, the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary andthe Treasurer who shall be elected in accordance with therules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin subsection (1) of this section, Mr. Takashi Doshita andMr. Masanori Toyoda shall be the life patrons of theCorporation and their successors shall be nominated by themto be the patrons therefor. The persons succeeding themshall also be life patrons.

(3) The first Chairman of the Corporation shall be theChairman of the Association holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a vote of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters:—

(a)the admission, resignation and expulsion ofmembers of the Corporation ;

Generalpowers of theCorporation.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and CulturalAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20064

(b)the powers, duties and functions of the Board ofDirectors and office bearers of the Corporation ;

(c)the conduct of meetings and the procedure to befollowed at such meetings;

(d)the appointment, dismissal and terms ofemployment of employees of the Corporation andtheir duties and functions ;

(e)the code of conduct to be observed by the employeesof the Corporation; and

(f)generally for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the attainment of its objects.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

(3) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may bemade under subsection (1).

7.All debts and liabilities of the association existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to, subscriptions and contributions payble to theassociation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman and the Secretary of the Corporation who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as witness.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,transfers, donations, contributions, fees or grants shall bedeposited by the Corporation in one or more banks as thecorporation shall determine.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Funds of theCorporation.

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20065

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund ora sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, developmentor improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in theexcercise and discharge of the powers and functions of theCorporation shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.

10.(1) The Board of Directors shall cause proper booksof accounts to be kept of all income and expenditure of theCorporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall, not less thanonce in every year be examined, audited and certified by aqualified auditor who shall be an associate member of theInstitute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka.

11.The Corporation shall be able to and capable in law,to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,subscription, grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwiseand all such property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurpose of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

12.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other person.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable orimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Accounts andAudit.

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and CulturalAssociation (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 20066

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.