PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 10 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 26, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 2/2019

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND

WHEREAS a Trust Fund called and known as the“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” has heretofore been establishedby the Trust Deed bearing number 309 dated December 1,2014 attested by N. S. Malinee Senanayake, Notary public ofColombo in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Trust Fund according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Trust Fund has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Heart to Heart TrustFund (Incorporation) Act, No. 10 of 2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the“Trust Fund”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe body corporate hereby constituted, shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the “Heart to HeartTrust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”)and by that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Short title

Preamble

Incorporation ofthe Heart toHeart TrustFund

2Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the voluntary social services organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporateis constituted are hereby declared to be–

(a)to promote the awareness of the general public onall matters pertaining to heart diseases includingthe cause and prevention of such diseases byorganizing lectures, seminars and other pertinentprogrammes; and

(b)to provide financial assistance to heart patients inneed of funds who seek treatments particularly atany hospital of Sri Lanka,

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permittedby such law.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

Board of Trustees consisting of such number of office bearersas may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Trustees of the Trust Fund holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall subject to the rules madeunder paragraph (b) of this subsection, function as an InterimBoard of Trustees of the body corporate until the first Boardof Trustees is appointed or elected in the manner providedfor by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and(4) of section 7, the Interim Board of Trustees shall have thepower to make rules for the interim administration of thebody corporate not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board of Trustees shall betaken by the majority of its members present.

(d) The first Board of Trustees of the body corporate shallbe appointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board of Trusteesincluding the patrons and advisers, shall be appointed orelected for a period of three years and any such office bearer,patron or adviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board of Trustees shall having regard to the rulesof the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

4Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepower–

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may by requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as determined by theBoard of Trustees with a view to promoting theobjects of the body corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of the powersof the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or withour securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind for the attainment of the objects of the bodycorporate:

Provided that, the Board of Trustees shall obtainthe prior written approval of the Department ofExternal Resources in respect of all foreign grants,gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Board of Trustees may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities, asmay be determined by the body corporate in termsof rules made under section 7 of the Act;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate;

(j)to train officers and servents in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k)generally to do all such acts and things authorizedby this Act for the achievement of the objects of thebody corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

Rules of thebody corporate

6Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members ;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board ofTrustees or vacation of or removal from office ofoffice bearers and the powers, duties and functionsof the office bearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and servantsof the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board of Trustees or notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be a memberof the Board of Trustees and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its’ objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1), shall bepublished in the Gazette within three months upon makingof such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof;

7Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board of Trustees shall maintain a register ofmembers in which name, address and other essential detailsof the members shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for andon account of the body corporate shall be deposited in oneor more banks approved by the Board of Trustees to thecredit of the body corporate subject to the provisions ofsection 6(c):

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by thebody corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

Register ofmembers

Accounts andAuditing

Fund of thebody corporate

8Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited annuallyby the Auditor-General or qualified auditor appointed by theAuditor-General in terms of provisions of Article 154 ofConstitution and be certified by the Auditor-General or suchqualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section “a qualified auditor”means–

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm Accountants, each of the resident partners ofwhich, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Board of Trustees shall prepare a report ofthe activities of the body corporate for each financial yearand submit such report together with the audited statementof accounts certified by the Auditor- General or a qualifiedauditor, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Health and to the Registrar ofVoluntary Social Service Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Service Organization (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

Annual Report

9Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Trust Fund existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Trust Fund on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presencetwo members of the Board of Trustees who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Seal of the bodycorporate

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Debts due byand payable tothe Trust Fund

10Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board of Trustees as may be decidedby such Board of Trustees.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of the body corporate, andwhich is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributingany income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orother body corporate.

18.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:–

“bank” means a bank licensed under the provisions ofthe Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

“law” shall have the same meaning assigned to suchexpression in the Constitutions; and

“written law” means, any law and subrdinate legislationincluding statutes made by a Provincial Council andregulations made under such statutes, Orders,Proclamations, Rules, By-laws and Regulationsmade or issued by any body or person having poweror authority under any law to make or issue the same.

19.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Interpretation

11Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)Act, No.10 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.