PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 24th September, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

SOCIAL SERVICE FOUNDATION OFWICKRAMASHILA DHARMAYATHENAYAIN BANDARAGAMA (INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 48 OF 2009

1Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

[Certified on 24th September, 2009]

L. D.—O. (Inc.) 4/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SOCIAL SERVICE FOUNDATION OF

WICKRAMASHILA DHARMAYATHENAYA IN BANDARAGAMA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “SocialService Foundation of Wickramashila Dharmayathenya” hasheretofore been established in Bandaragama, for the purposeof effectually carrying out and transacting all objects andmatters connected with the said Foundation according tothe rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Social ServiceFoundation of Wickramashila Dharmayathenaya inBandaragama (Incorporation) Act, No. 48 of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the “SocialService Foundation of Wickramashila Dharmayathenaya inBandaragama” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)or shall hereafter be admitted members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be and become a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of “Social ServiceFoundation of Wickramashila Dharmayathenaya inBandaragama” and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have, and use of common sealand alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofthe SocialServiceFoundation ofWickramashilaDharmayathenayain Bandaragama.

Short title.

Preamble.

PL 004184 — 3,150 (07/2009)

Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

2

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to supply the necessaries maintenance of thefollowing and to contiure successfully so as toimprove the social and cultural standards of theBandaragama Dharmayathenaya Pirivena and thefollowing affiliated institutes:—

(i)Sri Pannalankara Damma School;

(ii)Wickramashila Art Institute;

(iii)Wickramashila Staff Society;

(iv)Bandaragama Community DevelopmentFoundation;

(v)Sangamithatha Women’s Association;

(vi)Samagi Funeral Support Association; and

(vii)Organization of Wickramashila MahaPerahera;

(b)to build the new Chaitya and to improve and protectthe premises on which the said “Dharmayathanaya”is situated as a place of cultural importance;

(c)to provide houses, health facilities and drinkingwater to the poor and destitute of the area;

(d)to provide financial assistance to the needy andthose who require surgery;

(e)to secure the relevant properties in the area whichare of national importance and to improve the same;

(f)to supply the necessary equipments and facilitiesfor the poor and needy school children of thedistrict;

General Objectsof theCorporation.

3Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

(g)to improve the nutritional level and sportsmanshipof the students, youth and the adults of the area tothe national level;

(h)to build homes specially for destitute children andto improve facilities of the existing homes;

(i)to offer the scholarships for the higher educationforeign countries in the field of Technology inconsultation with the relevant authority and toprovide assistance during natural calamities; and

(j)to provide facilities to villagers to go onpilgrimages.

(2) In the implementation of the above objectives theCorporation shall ensure that such implementation is carriedout without distinction based on race, cast, religion,language, sex or political opinion.

4.The appointment of the Secretary, Chairman,Treasurer and the Accountant of the Corporation shall be inaccordance with the rules made hereunder.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject tothe rules of the Corporation, made under section 7, beadministered by an Executive Committee consisting of theoffice-bearers and such number of members as may beprovided for in such rules and elected in accordancetherewith.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporationshall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act.

Appointment ofOfficials.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

4

6.Subject to the provision of the Act, any other writtenlaw, the Corporation shall have the power —

(a)to submit proposals for the development of thearea ;

(b)to provide services required by the villages and toperform the duties to their satisfaction ;

(c)to hold the documents of Corporation in safecustody and to secure the same ;

(d)to receive subscriptions, grants, donations, gifts fromsources in Sri Lanka or abroad ;

(e)to obtain loans on such terms and conditions asmay be approved by the executive committee forthe purpose of carrying out the objects ; and

(f)to do all other acts and things as are necessary orexpedient to the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for the following matters—

(a)the admission, classification or expulsion ofmembers;

(b)for the election of office bearers, the ExecutiveCommittee and the conduct of the duties of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(c)for the procedure to be followed in the transactionof business at meetings of the Corporation and theExecutive Committee;

Rules of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

5Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audits of its accounts; and

(e)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule maybe made under subsection (1).

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofor or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation, shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theexecutive committee shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, perfomance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debtsdue to and subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe pruposes of this Act.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of office bearers as may be provided for in the rulesof the Corporation who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Fund of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed.

Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

6

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accounant issued by any one ofsuch Institutes.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributingany income or property among its or their membes. SuchInstitute or Institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Corporation at or immediately before the dissolutionof the Corporation.

Audit andaccounts.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

7Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporation.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Social Service Foundation of WickramashilaDharmayathenaya in Bandaragama (Incorporation)Act, No. 48 of 2009

8

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.