PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 21st April, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

GAMAGE ARTHUR PERERA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 26 OF 2009

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20091

[Certified on 21st April, 2009]

L. D. —O. (Inc.) 38/2005

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE GAMAGE ARTHUR PERERA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “GamageArthur Perera Foundation” has heretofore been formed inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the objects and mattersfor which it was formed and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant theapplication :

BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Gamage Arthur PereraFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 26 of 2009.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as are members of the “GamageArthur Perera Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall and become a bodycorporate with perpetual succession under the name and styleof Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (hereinafter referred toas “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be suedin all courts with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be —

(a)to establish and maintain orphanages and homesfor the aged in the name of Gamage Arthur Pereraand to establish social welfare centres;

Short title.

Preamble.

Incorporationof the GamageArthur PereraFoundation.

GeneralObjects of theCorporation.

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20092

(b)to provide medical aid, food and housing to thepoor, the destitute and the sick ;

(c)to co-operate and associate with other associations,societies or organizations having objects similar tothose of the Corporation ;

(d)to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminarsworkshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lankaand elsewhere, in furtherance of the objects of theCorporation; and

(e)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,leaflets, newspapers and magazines which theCorporation may consider desirable for thepromotion and advancement of its objects.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation be administered by a Committee ofManagement of not less than seven members including thePresident, Honorary Secretary, two Vice-Presidents andTreasurer to be elected in accordance with the rules in forcefor the time being of the Corporation.

(2)The first Committee of Management of theCorporation shall consist of the members of the Committeeof Management of the Foundation holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct. Such first Committee of Management may hold officeuntil holding of the first Annual General Meeting of theCorporation.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such Acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any of them,including the power to open, operate or close bank accounts,to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security, to receive

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Powers of theCorporation.

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20093

or collect grants and donations to invest its funds and toengage, employ and dismiss officers and servants requiredfor the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom or vacation of or removal from, office of officebearers and their power, conduct and duties ;

(c)the election of the members of the Committee ofManagement and its powers, conduct and dutiesand the terms of office of members of the Committeeof Management ;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement, the times, places, notices and agendaof such meetings, the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20094

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like manner as a rule maybe made under sub-section (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing onthe day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation hereby constituted.

8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property movable or immovable, whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, giftor testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Actand subject to the rules of the Corporation, with full power tosell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,encumber or charge the same.

9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor or and on account of the Corporation shall be depositedin one or more banks as the Corporation shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, all sums ofmoneys as are required to defray any expenditure incurredby the Corporation in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of all moneys received and expended by theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Association.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Funds of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20095

(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year and the correctness ofIncome, Expenditure and the Balance Sheet certified by theAuditor or Auditors who shall be an associate member ormembers of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaappointed by the Corporation.

11.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to institution or institutions havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is orare by its or their rules prohibited from distributing anyincome or property, among the members.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except under the authority of theCommittee of Management and in the presence of thePresident and the Secretary or a member of the Committee ofManagement who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Gamage Arthur Perera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 20096

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.