6Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PASYODUNRATA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 05 OF 1999

[Certified on 26th March, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 26, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs. 4.50 Postage: Rs.3.50

(Internet Version)

1Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

[Certified on 26th March , 1999]L.D. - O 30/97.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PASYODUNRATA DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the“Pasyodunrata Development Foundation” has heretofore beenformed at Matugama for the purpose of effectively carryingout the objects of the said Foundation and transacting allmatters connected with the said Foundation according to therules agreed to by its members;

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out transacted the several objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This act may be cited as the PasyodunrataDevelopment Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as are members of thePasyodunrata Development Foundation hereinafter referredto as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admited asmembers of the corporation hereby constituted shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession under the name and styleof the “Pasyodunrata Development Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name maysue and be sued in all courts with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be -

(a) to promote community based organisations;

Preamble

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe PasyodunrataDevelopmentFoundation.

General objects.

H-022545

2Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

(b) to builed up the capacity of such organisations;

(c) to promote the educations of the under privileged;

(d) to carry out relief, rehabilitation and reconstructionprogrammes;

(e) to promote health education, and to provideinformation on the eradication of malnutrition;

(f) to further, the welfare and development of theunder privileged;

(g) to promote income generating projects in theplantations as well as in the villages, and to launchself help projects, with a view to generatingemployment;

(h) to provide assistance to relive distress caused bynatural disasters such as floods, cyclones anddroughts ;

(i) to disseminate knowledge and information onimproved methods of agriculture , horticultureaquaculture, sericulture, animal husbandry, freshwater fisheries and bee keeping, through thepublication and distribution of books andpamphlets and the conduct of seminars, workshops,lectures and film shows;

(j) to promote thrift among the under privileged.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionand furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them , including the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,and to engage employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

3Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therule inforce for the time being of the Corporation, beadministered by a Board of Management consisting of theoffice-bearers and such other persons as may be provided forin such rules and elected in accordance therewith.(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall be the Board of Management of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day prior to the date of commencement of thisAct.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the members and by majorityof the votes, of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act, or any other written law for the admission,withdrawal, resignation, retirement or expulsion of members,for the election of the office-bearers of the Board ofManagement and for the conduct of the duties of the Board ofManagement and of the various officers, agents and servantsof the Corporation by the Board of Management for theprocedure to be followed in the transaction of business, andotherwise generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects. Such ruleswhen made may, at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the dayprior to the date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemedto be the rules of the Corporation made under this section inso far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct, or any other written law.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to and subscriptions and contributionspayable to, the foundation on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due to andpayable by theCorporation.

4Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

8. The Corporation shall be capable in law to acquireand hold any property, movable or immovable which maybecome vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such propertyshall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,and shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation have fullpower to sell, mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board of Management who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

10. Nothing in this Act, contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate or of any other person except such as arementioned in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under,them.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Corporation mayhold property,movable orimmovable.

How the seal ofthe Corporationis to be affixed

Safeguarding therights of theRepublic andothers

Sinhala text toPrevail in case ofany inconsistency

5Pasyodunrata Development Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.