PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI DHAMMALANKARA SOCIAL SERVICESFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, NO. 51 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th December, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 16, 2011

Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20111

Short title.

[Certified on 16th December, 2011]

L. D.—O.(Inc.) 3/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE SRI DHAMMALANKARA SOCIAL SERVICESFOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the“Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation” hasheretofore been formed for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application:

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as Sri Dhammalankara SocialServices Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theSri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)with perpetual succession, under the name and style of“Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation” and bythat name may sue and be sued in all courts with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal and alter thesame at its pleasure.

Preamble.

2 —PL 005264 — 3090 (10/2010)

Incorporation ofSriDhammalankaraSocial ServicesFoundation.

2Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 2011

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to maintain Sri Jayasumanaramaya of Alakolamada,the Sri Dhammadhara Pirivena, Sri DhammadharaDhamma School and the Ruwan Children’s Parkaffiliated to the Foundation;

(b)to construct and repair houses of the needy in thearea;

(c)to grant financial assistance for the treatment ofpersons and to build, establish and provide clinicsfor the treatment of such persons;

(d)to promote the cultural, social, economic andreligious development for the public advantage;

(e)to grant assistance for the opening of libraries andfor the conduct of study courses and providefacilities to promote the education of children;

(f)to provide sports materials and other facilities forthe promotion of sports skills of the youth;

(g)to provide homes for the needy and indigent eldersand disabled and orphaned children;

(h)to provide relief and welfare services to personsduring natural disasters;

(i)to award scholarships for higher education in foreigncountries to youth, in the fields of technology,science and engineering;

(j)to provide recreational facilities for the needy ; and

(k)to provide industrial training for the youth.

(2) In the implementation of the above objects theCorporation shall ensure that such implementation is carriedout without distinction baded on race, cast, religion,language, sex or political opinion.

General objectsof theFoundation.

Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20113

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtheranceof its objects or any one of them, including the power toopen and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneywith or without security, to receive or collect grants ordonations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ anddismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out ofthe objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Management. The Board ofManagement shall consist of the Chief Incumbent of theSri Dhammalankara Social Service Foundation who shallbe the Director-General (hereinafter referred to as the“Director-General”) and the Chairman, the Secretary andthe Treasurer and such other committee members who maybe elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporationunder section 6.

(2) The Director-General shall preside at every meetingof the Board of Management. In the absence of the Director-General from any meeting of the Board of Management, theChairman shall preside at such meeting.

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rulesmade thereunder, the Board of Management may regulatethe procedure in regard to its meetings and the transactionof business at such meetings.

(4) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancyamong its members or any defect in the election ornomination of a member thereof.

General powersof theCorporation.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

4Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 2011

(5) The first Board of Management of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Management ofthe Foundation, holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present and voting at such meetingto make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Actor any other written law, for the performance of the duties ofthe Board and the various officers and servants of theCorporation, for specifying the procedure to be followed inthe transaction of business at meetings of the Corporationand of the Board of Management and otherwise generally,for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects.

(2) No rule of the Corporation shall be altered, added to,amended or rescinded except by the votes of not less thantwo-thirds of the members present and voting at a generalmeeting of the Corporation.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to therules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. Allmonies received by way of gift, bequest, transfer, subscription,contribution fees or donation shall be deposited to the creditof the Corporation in one or more banks as the Board ofManagement shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,all such sums of money as may be required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out theobjects of the Corporation.

(3) The monies and property of the Corporationwheresoever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion

Rules of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20115

thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of theCorporation.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by theCorporation.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means-

(a)An individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such institute ; or

(b)A firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such institute.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable tothe Foundation on this day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purpose of this Act.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,to take and hold any property movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Audit ofaccounts.

6Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 2011

property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation madeunder section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11.The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof the Board of Management and it shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of amember of the Board of Management and the Secretary orany other person authorized by the Board of Management,who shall sign their names to the instrument in token oftheir presence and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation and which is byits rules prohibited from distributing any income or propertyamong its members.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body, politic or corporate.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20117

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.