PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22, 2010

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 21st January, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

WARIYAPOLA RAJAMAHA VIHARADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 2 OF 2010

1Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010

Short title.

Preamble.

[Certified on 21st January 2010]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 27/2008.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE WARIYAPOLA RAJAMAHA VIHARADEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theWariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development Foundation hasbeen established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out and transacting all objects and mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted several objects andmatters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated, and it will be expendent to grant theapplication:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Wariyaplola RajamahaVihara Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act,No. 2 of 2010.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as presently are members ofthe Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation") or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the "Corporation") with perpetual succession under thename and style of the "Foundation", and by that name maysue and be sued with full power and authority to have anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporationof theWariyapolaRajamahaViharaDevelopmentFoundation.

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20102

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to take necessary steps to develop the WariyapolaRajamaha Viharaya in every aspect for the spiritualadvancement of the people and also to take steps tomake new additions to the Viharaya when required;

(b)to assist to develop the moral values of thecommunity and to take relevant measures in thisregard;

(c)to take steps to establish, maintain, manage anddevelop pirivenas and other relevant religiousinstitutions for the academic development ofBhikkus;

(d)to implement programmes in respect of pre-schools,day-care centers, homes for children and theirreligious education;

(e)to assist to enhance the welfare facilities andbenefits for Sri Lankan students who are unable topursue their education due to poverty anddisability;

(f)to conduct necessary classes, lecturers, seminars,conferences, workshops, discussions, dialogues,educational tours and exhibitions with a view topromoting education for Buddhist bikkus andbikkunies;

(g)to provide housing for the benefit of the poor,elderly, destitute, and those with physical or mentaldisabilities, inaugurate and maintain languagetraining and vocational training courses in order todeploy the youth in productive services and toprovide facilities for the purpose of generatingincome in order to maintain and continue suchtraining course;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010

(h)to implement programmes for health camps fordisease control, exercise, sports and medical aidwith a view to ensuring welfare of the community;

(i)to create an awareness in the community in respectof promotion and preservation of literature, art, craftand natural resources and to commence and carryout natural programmes in order to protect thetraditions of Sri Lanka;

(j)to collaborate with other institutions whether inSri Lanka or abroad having objects similar to thoseof the Corporation.

(2) In the implementation of the objects of the Act as arespecified in subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure thatsuch implementation is carried out.

4.(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporationshall subject to the provisions of this Act, and such rules asare made under section 7, be administered by a Board ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’)consisting of the President, Executive Director, VicePresident, Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Assistant Secretary,Treasurer, Chief Organizer and six committee memberselected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The Board shall have the power to do all or any ofsuch functions as may be assigned to it.

(3) The first Board shall consist of the Board of Directorsof the Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

5.The Board shall cause a register to be kept of themembers, in which every person on the day preceding thedate of commencement of this Act is a member of theFoundation and every person thereafter duly admitted as amember of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation

Membershipand Registerof members.

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20104

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to purchase, rent, construct and otherwise obtainlands or buildings which may be requried for thepurposes of the Corporation;

(b)to borrow or raise money from the Governmentapproved Banks and other institutions for the purposesof the Corporation with the approval of the Board;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close bankaccounts;

(d)to invest any funds not immediately required forthe purposes of the Corporation, in such a manneras the Board may think fit;

(e)to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants,donations and gifts of all kinds;

(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with anyperson, company or body of persons;

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trusts and conditionsaffecting any real or personal property;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation and topay them such salaries, allowances and gratuitiesas may be determined by the Corporation;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurpose of the Corporation; and

Power of theCorporation.

5Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010

(j)to do all such acts and things as are necessary orexpedient for the proper and effective carrying outof the objects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from timeto time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for the followingmatters:—

(a)the admission and classification of membership,fees payable by members, expulsion or resignation;

(b)for the election of members to the Board or vacationof or, removal from office of office bearers andpowers, duties and conduct of the Executive Board;

(c)for appointment, powers, duties, functions andconduct of various officers, agents and servants ofthe Corporation;

(d)for the procedure to be observed at the summoningand holding of meeting of the Corporation, the time,place, notice and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefore and the conduct of business;

(e)the qualifications for membership of the Board andof the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the accomplishment of theobjects of the Corporation.

(2) The rules of the Corporation may be amended, altered,added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner,as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20106

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in abank approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

9.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited bya qualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual, who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such Institute.

10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to, andsubscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundationon that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposesof this Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Corporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Fund of theCorporation.

7Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010

11.If upon the dissolution of the corporation, thereremains after the satisfaciton of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty, whatsoever, such property shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other institute or institutes having objectssimilar to those of the corporation and which is or are by therules prohibited from distributing any income or profitamong its or their members. Such society or societies shallbe determined by the members of the corporation at orimmediately before the time of dissolution of theCorporation.

12.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7 and for thepurpose of the Act with full power to sell mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custodyof such person as may be determined by the Board and shallnot be affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in thepresence of the President and another member of the Boardas may be provided in the rules who shall sign their nameson the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as awitness.

14.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Seal of theCorporation.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 20108

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.