PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ANURADHAPURA JAYA SRI MAHA BODHIDEVELOPMENT FUND (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 41 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th November, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 21.50Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 10, 2006

1Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

[Certified on 06th November 2006]

L. D. —O. 20/2004.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ANURADHAPURA JAYA SRI MAHABODHI DEVELOPMENT FUND

WHEREAS a Fund called and known as the “AnuradhapuraJaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund” has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of effectively carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Fund, in accordance with the rules agreed to by itsmembers :

AND WHEREAS the said Fund has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant suchapplication :

BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Anuradhapura JayaSri Maha Bodhi Development Fund (Incorporation) Act,No. 41 of 2006.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund”(hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”) or shall herafter beadmitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession, under the name and styleof “Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund”and by that name may sue or be sued in all courts, with fullpower and authority to have and use a common seal and alterthe same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

Preamble.

Incorporation oftheAnuradhapuraJaya Sri MahaBodhiDevelopmentFund.

Short title.

General objectsof the Fund.

2Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

(a)to construct a ranveta (golden fence) around thesacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi and to manintain andeffect repairs to it when necessary ;

(b)to ensure and facilitate performance of traditionalBuddhist and cultural rites within the environmentof the Maluwa (Terrace) of the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi;

(c)to conserve the area outside of the Maluwa of thesacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi, to ensure the protectionof Buddhist archaelogical and historical objects andlandscaping and to carry out other conservation anddevelopment work with the approval and thesupervision of the Archaeological Department ;

(d)to formulate a scheme to construct buildingsconnected with the Maluwa of the sacred Jaya SriMaha Bodhi and to plan out a new environment inconsultation with the relevent authorities ;

(e)to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars, to bring outpublications, and to carry out activities in order torealise the objects of the Corporation ;

(f)to assist in the well being of the AnuradhapuraAtamasthana with the sacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhiat the apex and the other places of worship affiliatedto the Atamasthana in the Anuradhapura District andto do all activities to perpetuate the existence of theBuddha Sasana ;

(g)to help in any activity connected with theconstruction of the Ranveta around the sacred JayaSri Maha Bodhi with the approval and supervisionof the Department of Archaeology ;

(h)to protect the Buddhist Dhamma and the way ofvirtuous living preached by it and to disseminatethe same ; and

3Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

(i)to maintain and encourage friendly relations withBuddhist Organizations in Sri Lanka and abroad.

4.(1) The members of the Corporation shall be appointedby the Honourable Prime Minister on the advice andrecommendation of the Ven. Atamasthanadhipathi Thera, whoshall be the Chief Patron of the Corporation.

(2) The number of members of the Corporation shall benot less than ten members and not more than twenty membersinclusive of the following ex-officio members :-

(i)the Director-General of Archaeology ;

(ii)the Director-General of Central Cultural Fund ;

(iii) the Commissioner General of Buddhist Affairs ; and

(iv) the District Secretary of Anuradhapura.

(v)the Director-General of the National PhysicalPlanning Department.

(3) Every member of the Corporation unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, resignation or removel, hold office fora period of five years from the date of his appointment.

(4) Every member of the Corporation may resign his officeby a letter addressed in that behalf to the Prime Minister andsuch resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted bythe Prime Minister.

(5) Any member of the Corporation may be removed frommembership after consulting Ven. AtamasthanadhipathiThera.

(6) Where any member of the Corporation dies, resignsor is removed from office, the Prime Minister shallappoint another person on the recommendation of the Ven.Atamasthanadhipathi Thera, and the person so appointedshall hold office for the unexpired period of the term of officeof the member whom he succeeds.

(7) Any member of the Corporation who vacates office,by affluxion of time shall be eligible for reappointment”.

Membership.

4Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

5.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting of the members and by thevotes of not less than two thirds of the members present andvoting at such meeting to make rules, not inconsistent withthe management of the affairs of the Corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may, ata like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

6.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of giftsbequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions fees orgrants for and on account of the Corporation shall be depositedto the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theCommittee of Management shall determine.

(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvementand development of the property of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferreddirecty or indirectly, by way of dividends, bonus or otherwiseby way of profit to any member of the Corporation.

7. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation be administrated by a Committee ofManagement comprising of not less than six membersconsisting of the President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer,Assistant Secretaries and two other members to be elected inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

5Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

(2) The first Committee of Management of theCorporation will be the Committee of Management of theFund holding office on the day preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act.

8.The Committee of Management shall cause to be kepta register of members in which every person who on the daypreceeding the date of commencement of this Act is amember of the Fund and every person thereafter duly admittedas a member of the Corporation shall have his nameinscribed.

9.All debts and liabilities of the Fund existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid and discharged by the Corporation, and all debts due toand subscriptions and contributions payable to, the Fund onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act.

10.The Corporation shall be capable in Law to take andhold any property movable or immovable which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subjectto the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

11.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power—

(a)to take and hold land or buildings by purchase,acquisition, rent, building or other wise, for thepurposes of the Corporation ;

(b)to recover and take subscriptions, donations, grantsand all kinds of gifts, concessions for the purposesof the Corporation ;

(c)to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,company or body of persons ;

Debts due byand payable tothe Fund.

Register ofmembers.

General powersof theCorporation, toacquireproperty, investFunds &etc.

Corporation mayhold and disposeof propertymovable andimmovable.

6Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

(d)to receive, accept, implement, perform, andadminister the conditions effective to any real orprivate property which is held as belonging to or asany lawful trust with any Corporation, charitablesociety, board or any other trust ;

(e)to appoint, dismiss or terminate the services of theofficers and employees of the Corporation, and topay their salaries allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation ; and

(f)to train employees for the benefit of the Corporation.

12. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(b)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of its income and expenditure, assets andliabilities and all other transactions of theCorporation.

(c)The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

Audit andaccounts.

7Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha BodhiDevelopment Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a memberof the Corporation and the Secretary or any other personduly authorized by the committee of Management, who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,and such signing shall be independent of the signing of anysuch person as a witness.

14. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from such member to the Corporation.

15. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by their rules prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its or their members. Such institution orinstitutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

16. Nothing in this act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic, or any body politic or corporate,or of any other persons.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Seal of theCorporation.

Limitations ofliabilities ofmembers.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.