PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND RECONCILIATIONACT, No. 1 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 26, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

Short title

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

L.D.-O. 16/2023

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL

UNITY AND RECONCILIATION, IN ORDER TO ENSURE AND PROMOTE

NATIONAL UNITY AND RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA; TO SET OUT THE

POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS THEREOF AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS having regard to the need and importance ofnational unity and reconciliation in the socio-economicdevelopment process in Sri Lanka and the commitment andconsensus for the achievement of the same;

AND WHEREAS it has become a matter of nationalimportance to establish an office for national unity andreconciliation in order to assure to every citizen equalopportunities in the economic, social, cultural and politicalspheres whilst safeguarding the identity and to build aninclusive society in which diversity will be respected andall communities will coexist in harmony and unity;

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Office for National Unityand Reconciliation Act, No. 1 of 2024.

2. The objects of the Act shall be -

(a)to promote and foster national unity, reconciliationand peaceful coexistence among all persons in SriLanka;

(b)to formulate and recommend to the Government, anational policy on reconciliation and coexistence;

Preamble

Objects of theAct

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 20242

(c)to facilitate the implementation of policies andprogrammes in relation to national unity andreconciliation that would help to buildunderstanding, harmony and unity among allcommunities;

(d)to recommend to the Government, measures to betaken to resolve matters causing tensions andconflicts within and among the differentcommunities;

(e)to provide assistance to the stakeholders workingon reconciliation and coexistence in order toachieve coherence in peace and national unityinitiatives; and

(f)to assist and facilitate the implementation of anyrecommendation made by any reconciliationendeavour established under any written law, orany policy of the Government, for the purpose ofachieving national unity and reconciliation.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND

RECONCILIATION

3. (1) There shall be established an office which shall becalled and known as the “Office for National Unity andReconciliation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Reconciliation Office”).

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall be a body corporatehaving perpetual succession and a common seal and maysue and be sued in its corporate name.

Establishment ofthe Office forNational UnityandReconciliation

3Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

(3) The headquarters of the Reconciliation Office shallbe situated in Colombo and the Reconciliation Office may,from time to time, establish such number of regional officesas may be necessary, to achieve its mandate.

4. (1) The Reconciliation Office shall consist of -

(a)one ex-officio member appointed by the President,as nominated by the Minister, who shall be anofficer not below the rank of an Additional Secretaryof the Ministry of the Minister; and

(b)ten other members appointed by the President onthe recommendation of the Minister made inaccordance with the provisions of subsection (2)(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed members”).

(2) In making recommendations for the appointment ofmembers referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), theMinister shall have due regard to -

(a)ensure that the composition of the ReconciliationOffice reflects the pluralistic nature of the SriLankan society;

(b)ensure that the persons recommended to beappointed as members of the Reconciliation Officeshall be persons having eminence and experiencein one or more of the fields of human rights law,international humanitarian law, reconciliation andsocial harmony, national unity, management,project planning and regional development; and

(c)ensure that the persons recommended to beappointed as members of the Reconciliation Officeare not subject to any disqualification specified insection 5.

Constitution oftheReconciliationOffice

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 20244

(3) The President may, on the recommendation of theMinister, appoint one member as the Chairperson of theReconciliation Office.

5. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Reconciliation Office, ifsuch person –

(a)is or become a Member of Parliament, of anyProvincial Council or of any Local Authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)has been or is adjudged an insolvent by a court ofcompetent jurisdiction;

(d)has been or is found to have a conflict of interest,which in the opinion of the President, formed onthe recommendation of the Minister, conflictswith his duties as a member of the ReconciliationOffice;

(e)is or becomes unfit to continue in office by reasonof illness or other infirmity of mind or body;

(f)has been or is declared to be of unsound mind by acourt of competent jurisdiction;

(g)has served or is serving or a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lankaor any other country; or

(h)absents himself from three consecutive meetingswithout previously obtaining leave from theReconciliation Office.

Disqualificationto be a memberof theReconciliationOffice

5Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

6. (1) Every appointed member of the ReconciliationOffice shall, unless such member vacates office earlier bydeath, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of threeyears from the date of the appointment and unless suchmember has been removed, shall be eligible for reappointmentfor not more than one further term, whether consecutive orotherwise.

(2) For the purpose of this section, the period in which amember is appointed as an acting member shall not beconsidered as a ‘term’ of office within the meaning of thissection.

7. (1) The office of an appointed member of theReconciliation Office shall become vacant -

(a)upon the death of such member;

(b)upon such member resigning such office by writingaddressed to the President;

(c)upon such member being removed from office onany ground specified in section 5; or

(d)on the expiration of such member’s term of office.

(2) A member of the Reconciliation Office may beremoved from office by the President, if such person becomesdisqualified under section 5 to be a member of theReconciliation Office.

(3) The Chairperson may resign from the office ofChairperson by letter addressed to the President.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofmembership of the Reconciliation Office.

Term of officeof the appointedmembers

Removal andresignation ofappointedmembers

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 20246

(5) (a) If the Chairperson of the Reconciliation Officebecomes temporarily unable to perform the duties of hisoffice, by reason of illness or other infirmity or due to absencefrom Sri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subjectto the provisions of section 4, appoint any other member ofthe Reconciliation Office to act as the Chairperson.

(b) If a member of the Reconciliation Office becomestemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, byreason of illness or other infirmity or due to absence fromSri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subject tothe provisions of section 4, appoint any other qualifiedperson to temporarily act in place of such member duringsuch period.

(6) No act or proceeding of the Reconciliation Officeshall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy among its members, or defect in theappointment of any member thereof.

8. (1) The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of theReconciliation Office. In the absence of the Chairperson ofany meeting of the Reconciliation Office, the memberspresent at such meeting shall elect one of the members of theReconciliation Office to preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairperson or the member presiding at any suchmeeting of the Reconciliation Office shall, in addition tohis own vote, have a casting vote.

(3) The quorum for meetings of the Reconciliation Officeshall be five members.

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, theReconciliation Office may make rules, to regulate theprocedure in regard to the conduct of its meetings, and thetransaction of business at such meetings.

Quorum and themeetings of theReconciliationOffice

7Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

PART II

MANDATE, POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

RECONCILIATION OFFICE

9. The Reconciliation Office shall have the mandate to –

(a)make recommendations to the Government andrelevant authorities towards achieving nationalunity, reconciliation and durable peace in SriLanka;

(b)formulate a national policy and national action planon reconciliation and coexistence;

(c)facilitate and implement programmes to promotenational unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka andto monitor the implementation thereof; and

(d)recommend to the Government, measures to betaken to resolve matters causing tensions andconflicts within and among the differentcommunities, having adverse effects on nationalunity.

10. The Reconciliation Office shall have the followingpowers, duties and functions: -

(a)to make recommendations to the Government andrelevant authorities, on matters relevant to buildingnational unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka andother matters specified in the mandate of theReconciliation Office;

(b)to formulate a national policy on reconciliationand coexistence and assist the implementation ofthe same;

Mandate of theReconciliationOffice

Powers, dutiesand functions oftheReconciliationOffice

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 20248

(c)to formulate and implement the national action planon reconciliation and coexistence comprising ofthe programmes specified in the Schedule to thisAct;

(d)to identify the persons or groups of personsaggrieved within the social layers of the Sri Lankansociety due to ethnic, religious, linguistic, social,political and economic factors;

(e)to develop affirmative action programmes for thepersons or groups of persons referred to in paragraph(d) within the national action plan on reconciliationand coexistence;

(f)to pursue the efforts towards reconciliation and thestrengthening of national unity, and to address post-conflict concerns such as the return and resettlementof internally displaced people, and therehabilitation and reintegration of concernedpersons;

(g)to launch public awareness and educationcampaigns on the national policy on reconciliationand coexistence and the national action plan;

(h)to mainstream the values defined in the nationalpolicy on reconciliation and coexistence withinGovernment institutions and existing nationalinitiatives through annual work plans;

(i)to identify the constraints to national integrationand to take suitable action based on discussion andconsensus of the relevant stakeholders;

(j)to collaborate with the Ministries, governmentdepartments and other institutions dealing withmatters relating to reconciliation and peacebuilding;

9Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

(k)to review various strategies that are beingimplemented and due to be implemented withregard to the national integration and reconciliationand to assist in the settlement of issues inimplementing such strategies;

(l)to make recommendations to the Government andother relevant authorities for the consultation withrelevant stakeholders on required policies andactions for national unity, reconciliation,coexistence and building a lasting peace;

(m)to assist the relevant authorities -

(i)to prepare and implement programmes onthe promotion of national integration,reconciliation and coexistence and nationalharmony and to integrate such programmesinto development plans at the district level;

(ii)to implement the recommendations made byany reconciliation endeavour establishedunder any written law, or any policy of theGovernment, for the purpose of achievingnational unity and reconciliation;

(iii)to resolve issues that may emerge in theprocess of peace building and reconciliationby making proposals on appropriate solutionsto such issues; and

(iv)to seek funds for implementation ofprogrammes and projects on national unityand reconciliation, conducted under thisAct;

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 202410

(n)to liaise and coordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions, development partners and civilsociety with a view to promoting the objects of theAct;

(o)to assist, guide and facilitate peace andreconciliation programmes conducted by localorganisations including community basedorganisations;

(p)to make rules to ensure the effective functioning ofthe Reconciliation Office including itsadministration;

(q)to make rules and issue guidelines from time totime which shall include gender and childresponsive policies, to be followed by the staff ofthe Reconciliation Office relating to the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions;

(r)to appoint, employ and dismiss officers andemployees of the Reconciliation Office and toexercise disciplinary control over such officers andemployees;

(s)to request secondment of public officers to theReconciliation Office; and

(t)to appoint committees and establish in addition toany unit or division specifically mentioned in thisAct, divisions and units as are required for theeffective administration and functioning of theReconciliation Office and to delegate such powersand functions as are necessary to such committees,divisions and units.

11Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

PART III

SECRETARIAT

11. (1) The Reconciliation Office shall have a Secretariatwhich shall be charged with the responsibility ofadministering the affairs of the Reconciliation Office.

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall appoint a Director-General, who shall be a person having qualifications andexperience in the field of national unity and reconciliationand the Director-General shall be the Chief Executive Officerof the Reconciliation Office.

(3) There may be appointed, by the Reconciliation Office,such other officers and servants as may be necessary to assistthe Reconciliation Office in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions.

12. (1) At the request of the Reconciliation Office, anyofficer in the public service may with the consent of thatofficer and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office for suchperiod as may be determined by the Reconciliation Officeor with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.

Secretariat

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff oftheReconciliationOffice

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 202412

PART IV

FINANCE AND REPORTING

13. The State shall provide the Reconciliation Office withadequate funds to enable the Reconciliation Office todischarge the functions assigned to it by this Act. Such fundsshall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

14. The salaries of the members of the ReconciliationOffice shall be determined by Parliament and be charged onthe Consolidated Fund, and shall not be diminished duringtheir terms of office.

15. The Reconciliation Office may raise funds –

(a)by obtaining grants, gifts or endowments fromwithin Sri Lanka; and

(b)to achieve its mandate by obtaining grants, gifts orendowments from outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the funds under paragraph (b) shall bechanneled through the Department of External Resources.

16. (1) The financial year of the Reconciliation Officeshall be the calendar year.

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall cause proper accountsto be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities.

(3) The accounts of the Reconciliation Office shall beaudited by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

Finances

Salaries ofmembers of theReconciliationOffice

ReconciliationOffice to raisefunds

Financial year

13Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

17. The Reconciliation Office shall submit annual reportsincluding its audited accounts, to Parliament, and shall alsocause such reports to be made public within a period of onemonth of such reports being submitted to Parliament.

PART V

GENERAL

18. (1) Any person who –

(a)wrongfully resists or obstructs any personauthorised under this Act in the exercise of thepowers conferred on such person;

(b)wrongfully hinders or obstructs the ReconciliationOffice in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions; or

(c)willfully provides false information to theReconciliation Office,

commits the offence of contempt against the authority ofthe Reconciliation Office.

(2) Where the Reconciliation Office has reasonablegrounds to believe that a person has committed the offenceof contempt against the authority of the ReconciliationOffice, the Reconciliation Office shall report such matter tothe Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt committedagainst the authority of the Reconciliation Office shall bepunishable by the Court of Appeal as if it was an offence ofcontempt committed against the Court of Appeal.

19. (1) (a) No order, decision, act or omission of theReconciliation Office or any member, officer or servantthereof shall be questioned in any proceedings or any courtof law, save and except in proceedings under Article 126 or140 of the Constitution.

Reporting

Offences

Protectionfrom action

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 202414

(b) The writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appealby Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order,decision, act or omission of the Reconciliation Office or anymember, officer or servant thereof, shall be exercised by theSupreme Court and not by the Court of Appeal.

(2) Other than in the circumstances provided for insubsection (1) of this section –

(a)no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be institutedagainst any member of the Reconciliation Office orany officer or servant appointed to assist theReconciliation Office, other than for contemptagainst the authority of the Reconciliation Office,for any act which in good faith is done or omittedto be done, by him, as such member or officer orservant;

(b)no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be institutedagainst any member of the Reconciliation Office inrespect of any report made in good faith by theReconciliation Office under this Act or against anyother person in respect of the publication by suchperson of a true account of such report; and

(c)no proceedings civil, criminal or administrative,shall be instituted against any person consequent,to such person in good faith providing evidence ordocumentation to the Reconciliation Office.

20. (1) The Reconciliation Office may make rules formatters for which rules are required to be made under thisAct.

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be placed beforeParliament and published in the Gazette within a reasonableperiod not exceeding three months.

Rules

15Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

21. The members of the Reconciliation Office (for thelimited purpose of their functions under this Act) and theofficers and servants shall be deemed to be public servantsfor the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023 and the Evidence Ordinance(Chapter 14).

22. The Reconciliation Office shall be deemed to be ascheduled institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Actshall be construed accordingly.

23. (1) The Reconciliation Office may delegate to theDirector-General, or any other member or officer thereof,any of its powers and functions.

(2) The Director-General, the member or officer to whomany of the powers or functions of the Reconciliation Officehas been delegated shall exercise and perform such powersand functions subject to the general or specific directions ofthe Reconciliation Office.

24. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act -

“Minister” means the Minister assigned theReconciliation Office under Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution; and

“community based organisations” means non-profit ornon-governmental organizations that operates atthe grassroot level within a specific community orlocality.

25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Members & c.deemed to bepublic servants

ReconciliationOffice to be ascheduledinstitution

Delegation ofPowers

Interpretation

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 202416

SCHEDULE[section 10(c)]

Programmes to be comprised in the national action plan onreconciliation and coexistence

1.Programmes to ensure reconciliation and coexistence that buildsup awareness, peace and unity among all communities andfollow up.

2.Programmes to promote and catalyze a multi-stakeholder effortto create a society that respects rule of law, fundamental rights,freedom, social obligations, mutual respect, non-discrimination,equity and diversity.

3.Programmes to establish a coherent network mechanismdesigned and established from regional level to the nationallevel to promote dialogue, build consensus towardsreconciliation and provide early warning and response toemerging conflicts.

4.Programmes to strengthen the governance, policies andcurricula to promote reconciliation and social cohesion in theeducation system including schools, both public and privateuniversities, tertiary and vocational education institutions.

5.Programmes to make psychosocial care and support system,including coordination, assessment, monitoring and evaluationstrengthened to foster reconciliation among deprivedcommunities.

6.Programmes to formulate a national action plan for preventingviolent extremism, in consultation with the relevant Ministriesand government departments and institutions.

7.Programmes to make recommendations to the Government onmeasures to be taken to resolve issues causing to stress andconflicts existed among different communities and implementsuch measures and follow up.

8.Programmes to formulate projects and programmes focusedon social integration, education, conflict transformation,psychosocial supportive projects, arts and culture, awarenesscreation and socialization, economic engagement programmesunder overall district development and local economicdevelopment plans, livelihood development plans with a specialfocus to women and youth integration.

17Office for National Unity and ReconciliationAct, No. 1 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.