PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

COMMUNITY RECOVERYAND DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 23 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 05th July, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 6, 2007

1Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

Short title.

2—PL 001854—3,300 (03/2007)

Preamble.

[Certified on 05th July 2007]

L.D.—O. INC 11/2005.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE COMMUNITY RECOVERY ANDDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “CommunityRecovery and Development Foundation” has heretofore beenformed for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objectsand transacting all matters connected with the said Societyaccording to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objectives and mattersfor which it was formed and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Community Recoveryand Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23of 2007.

2.From and after the date of Commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theCommunity Recovery and Development Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under thename and style of the “Community Recovery andDevelopment Foundation” and by that name may sue and besued, with full power and authority to have and use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofthe CommunityRecovery andDevelopmentFoundation.

2Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to work for the recovery, growth and developmentof person by encouraging “healthy living” andphysical, mental, emotional, psycho-social andhigher-mental well-being ;

(b)to maintain a caring, rehabilitation, recovery andrelief home called and known as “Sahana Sevana”for the benefit of psycho-socially victimized,psychologically traumatized persons, physically ormentally disabled persons of different age groups ;

(c)to conduct study programmes and research workon psycho-socially victimized persons, children,suicide prevention and to forward constructivesuggestions to the relevant authorities and policymakers, for the benefit of such persons and thesociety at large;

(d)to disseminate education and knowledge relatingto different psychological and social disciplines,mental relief work, rehabilitation, counseling andguidance;

(e)to set up mental relief and counselling centres,guidance centres, for the benefit of needy children,adolescents, youth, adults, and elderly with a viewto setting goals in the lives of such persons, for theprevention of suicides, uplifting personality andself-reliance ;

(f)to encourage ethnic groups to gain at least speakingability in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languagesand raise awareness on understanding of the fourmajor religions, with a view of enabling peace,harmony, enhancing human moral values amongthe communities of Sri Lanka ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

(g)to encourage youth and families to undertakehome-based income generating activities in additionto their main source of income, with a view touplifting the economic standards of the people ;

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, performand execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever as arenecessary of desirable for the promotion and furtherance of theobjects of the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower to open, maintain and close bank accounts, to borrow orraise moneys with or without security, to receive or collectgrants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employand dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying outof the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, beadministered by an Executive Committee elected inaccordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shallbe the Executive Committee of Foundation holding officeon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the admission, classification and withdrawal orexpulsion of members ;

(b)the election of office bearers, the resignation,vacation of or removal from office, of office-bearers,and their powers, duties and functions ;

(c)the election of the members of the ExecutiveCommittee and their powers, conduct and duties ;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

4Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers and servants of the Corporation ;

(e)the procedure to be followed in the transaction ofbusiness at the meeting of the Corporation and theExecutive Committee, the times, places, notices andagenda of such meetings ; the quorum therefor andthe conduct of business thereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of the accounts ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, toacquire and hold property, both movable and immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, leaseexchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Debts due byand payable tothe Corporation.

5Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be theyear begining on the first day of April to 31st March everyyear and ending on the thirty first day of March of such year ;

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation ;

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Executive Committee ofthe Corporation.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(i)a person who being the member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateissued by the Council of such Institute to practiceas an Accountant ; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate issued bythe Council of such Institute to practice as anAccountant .

10.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument, except in the presence of the President of theCorporation or in his absence, a Vice President and of theTreasurer or Secretary, who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.Where upon dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,such property shall not be distributed among the members ofthe Corporation, but shall be given or transferred to some

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Audit andAccounts.

6Community Recovery and DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007

other Institution having objects similar to those of theCorporation and which is or are by its rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its or theirmembers.

12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the republic or of any body politic or corporateor of any other persons.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of therepublic andothers.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.