PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MAHESWARY FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 27 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th May, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2011

1Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

[Certified on 25th May, 2011]

L.D.—O.(Inc) 21/2010

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MAHESWARY FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as “MaheswaryFoundation” has heretofore been formed in Colombofor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transactingthe objects and matters connected with the said associationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said association has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Maheswary Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 27 of 2011.

2.From an after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theMaheswary Foundation (hereinafter referred to as “theFoundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate with the perpetual succession under the name andstyle of the “Maheswary Foundation” (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue,and be sued, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to promote peace, goodwill, understanding andcooperation among all communities of Sri Lanka;

Preamble.

Short title.

General objects ofthe Corporation.

Incorporation ofthe MaheswaryFoundation .

2Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

(b)to promote and protect human rights, values, andpluralism in Sri Lanka;

(c)to promote sustainable development in rural areasby utilizing the natural resources available in thearea;

(d)to promote agricultural and fisheries sectors byintroducing technology to obtain maximumbenefits;(e)to establish information technology centres islandwide for the advancement of scientific studies;

(f)to strengthen the institutes of higher studies,encourage research and award scholarships;

(g)to promote social and cultural activities forenriching different ethnic groups;

(h)to empower women, children, disabled, andunderprivileged people;

(i)to promote and encourage sports, literary andspiritual activities among pepole;

(j)to coordinate with similar organizations of bothlocal and foreign and to organize meetings, seminarsconferences etc. for the advancement of its objects;

(k)to obtain and provide grants and other form offinancial assistance for the advancement of theobjects;

(l)to provide every assistance to governmentalagencies from generating employment amongyouth;

(m)to provide lands and houses to landless familiesand provide buildings and other facilities toschools;

3Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

(n)to provide infrastructure facilities such as roads andelectricity in villages;

(o)to conduct classes to teach English, Sinhala andTamil languages to needy students;

(p)to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops anddebates, with a view of accomplishing theobjectives of the Corporation;

(q)to print, publish and distribute books, journals,magazines and newspapers as are necessary toachieve these objects;

(r)to engage in income generating activities to raisenecessary funds to the Corporation with a view ofaccomplishing the objects of the Corporation.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them, including the power to acquire and hold propertymovable or immovable, to open, operate and close bankaccount, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds,to erect any building or structures on any land held by theCorporation and to engage, employ and dismiss, officersand servants required for the carrying out of the objects ofthe Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject toother provisions of this Act and the rules made under section6, be administered by a Board of Directors consisting ofChairman, Managing Director, Director of Finance, Directorof Administration, Director Operations, Director Planningand Director Legal, and a Secretary, Treasurer and anothernine more members elected in accordance with such rules inforce for the time being of the Corporation.

General powersof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, HonourableMinister Douglas Devanande, shall be the first Chairman ofthe Board of Directors. The Chairman shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Corporation.

(3) The first Administrative Council of the Corporationshall consist of the members of the Board of Directors ofthe foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Board of Directors torecommend from time to time, at any general meeting ofthe members summoned for the purpose and by a majorityof votes of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation andaccomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made mayat a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added toamended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Council shall be subjected to therules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gift, bequest, donations,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of theCorporation in one or more banks as the Board of Directorsshall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all

Rules of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

5Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

debts due to subscription and contribution payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purpose of this Act.

9.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount due from such member as membershipfees.

10.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable or immovable whichmay become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grants,gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose ofthis Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being ofthe Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of persons as may be provided for in the rules in forcefor the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

12.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedby a qualified auditor.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —

(i)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any

Seal of theCorporation.

Audits andAuccount.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andImmovable.

6Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

other Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

13.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributingany income or property among its or their members. SuchInstitute or Institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Corporation at the time of dissolution or immediatelybefore the dissolution of the Corporation.

14.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate, or of any other persons.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

7Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 27 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.