PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

SIRAJ ARABIC COLLEGE, ODDAMAVADI (INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 37 OF 2000

[Certified on 28th July, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 28, 2000

PRINTI!DATlllE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT lllE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO )

Accounts and Audit.

Seal of the Corporation.

Saving of the rights of the Republic and others.

Sinhala text to prevail in cnse of inconsistency.

4 Siraj Arabic College, Oddamavadi ( Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 2000

(2)

There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums ofmoney required to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise and discharge of its powers and functions under this Act.

(3)The moneys and property of the Corporation,wheresoever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, byway of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way ofprofit to the members of the Corporation.

9.( 1) The Corporation shall cause proper accou1n:, ,vbe kept of all the moneys received and expended by the

Corporation.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited al least once in every year and the correctness ofIncome and Expenditure Account and Balance Sheet certified by an auditor or auditors who shall be associate members ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka appointed by the Corporation.

10.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the Corporation, who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

11.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate or of any other persons, except, such as are mentioned in this Act, and claiming by, from, or under, them.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.