PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RED LOTUS ORGANIZATION FORHUMANITARIAN SERVICES(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 8 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 25, 2011

1Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

2—PL 004984–3,070 (07/2010)

[Certified on 22nd March, 2011]

L.D. O. Inc. 4/2010

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE RED LOTUS ORGANIZATION FORHUMANITARIAN SERVICES

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the“Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian Services”working on Buddhist principles has heretofore beenestablished for the purpose of preventing and alleviatingsuffering of all beings at times of disaster of any nature bybringing about greater preparedness at national andinternational levels through effective coordination,collaboration and networking and by acting as a resourcebank for humanitarian services based on loving kindness,compassion, appreciative joy and equanimity;

AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application.

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Red Lotus Organizationfor Humanitarian Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons and organizations as aremembers for the time being of the Red Lotus Organizationfor Humanitarian Services (hereinafter referred to as“the Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a bodycorporate with perpetual succession under the name and styleof “Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian Services”(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that

Preamble.

Incorporation ofRed LotusOrganization forHumanitarianServices.

Short title.

2Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

name may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.(1) The general objects of the Corporation shall be toprevent and alleviate suffering at times of disaster of anynature by bringing about greater preparedness at local,national and international levels through effectivecoordination, collaboration and networking and by actingas a resource bank for humanitarian services.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the objects setout in subsection (1) above, the objectives and functions ofthe Organization in particular shall be to —

(a)encourage and promote all forms of humanitarianactivities by member associations with a view toprevent and alleviate human suffering;

(b)encourage and promote in every country, theestablishment and development of an associationfor humanitarian services and inculcation in themthe principles of the Corporation;

(c)create and assist programmes for pre-disasterpreparedness at international, national and locallevels;

(d)raise and mobilize resources for relief, rehabilitationand reconstruction work and personalitydevelopment;

(e)provide relief by all available means to all disastervictims, without discrimination;

(f)organize, co-ordinate and direct international reliefactions in accordance with the general objects ofthe corporation and in co-operation with nationalassociations and any member associations;

(g)assist in the development of an effectiveorganizational structure and information

General objectsof theCorporation.

3Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

dissemination infrastructure at local and nationallevels;

(h)develop and assist training programmes onimproving disaster management skills, first aid, lifesaving skills, trauma counseling, child caremanagement and short term and long termrehabilitation programmes at international, nationaland local levels and ensure continuity;

(i)develop and maintain a data base and a websitelinked with the websites of the national levelassociations;

(j)develop close relationship with similarorganizations such as the Red Cross and the RedCrescent movement;

(k)promote greater awareness regarding humanitarianservices with special reference to youth andchildren;

(l)laise and coordinate among member associationspromoting inter-action and friendly relationsamong them;

(m)educate people on the truth that oneness of humanbeings stands above secondary factors of diversity;

(n)make representations to government inpromulgation, development and introduction ofhumanitarian laws wherever appropriate; and

(o)be the official representative of member associationsat international and national forums as may bedecided by the Executive Committee.

(3) In implementing the objects of this Act as specified insubsection (1) and (2), the corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation is carried out without distinction based onrace, caste, religion, language, or political opinion.

4Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

4.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Actand the rules of the Corporation made under section 6 beadministered by an Executive Committee.

(2) The members of the Executive Committee who areholding office on the day immediately preceeding the dateof commencement of this Act, shall be the first members ofthe Executive Committee and shall hold office until acommittee is elected in accordance with the rules madeunder section 6.

5.(1) The Corporation shall have the power to do allthings necessary for, or conducive or incidental to, thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), the Corporation shall have thefollowing powers and functions:—

(a)to receive or collect gifts, grants, donations,subsidies and subscriptions, whether in cash orotherwise from local and foreign sources;

(b)to operate, open and close current, savings ordeposit accounts and to borrow or raise money, withor without security;

(c)acquire and hold any property movable orimmovable which may be vested in the Corporationby virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydispositions or otherwise;

(d)to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange or otherwisedispose of, any movable or immovable propertybelonging to or held by the Corporation, subject toany trust attached to such property;

(e)to invest the funds vested in or belonging to, theCorporation in adequate securities as may benecessary;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Powers andfunctions.

5Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

(f)to erect or cause to be erected, any building orstructure and establish a Secretariat at theHeadquarters of the Corporation;

(g)generally, to do all such other things as arenecessary to facilitate the proper discharge of thefunctions of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time totime, at a general meeting of the Corporation and by majorityof votes of members present and voting to make Rules forthe management of the affairs of the corporation and theaccomplishment of its objects, powers and functions.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred in subsection (1), such rules may make provisionin respect of all or any of the following matters:—

(a)the admission, resignation and expulsion ofmembers;

(b)the recruitment, appointment and disciplinarycontrol of staff, servants and other employees andthe appointment of agents and representatives; and

(c)such other matters as are incidental or conducive tothe attainment of the objects, powers and functionsof the Corporation.

(3) The rules, at a like meeting, may be amended, alteredor rescinded by a two third majority of the members presentat the meeting.

(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund all monies receivedby way of gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fees or grants for and on account of theCorporation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

6Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney as required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe Corporation in the exercise performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Organization existingat the time of coming into operation of this Act shall be paidby the Corporation and all debts due to, and subscriptionspayable to, the Organization shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

9.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept for the income and expenditure, assetsand liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2)The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by one or more ofqualified auditors.

(3)In this section“qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountantsof Sri Lanka or any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute.

10.(1) The Logo of the corporation shall be theRed Lotus on a Dhammachakka with words metta,karuna, mudita and upekkha around the ring of theDhammachakka.

Accounts andaudit.

Debts due byand payable toCorporation.

The logo andseal of theCorporation.

7Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

(2) the seal of the corporation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except with the authority of theExecutive Council and in the presence of two members ofthe Executive Council who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence, and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

11.No member of the Corporation shall for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,be liable to make any contribution whatsoever.

12.If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remains,after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, anyproperty including money, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institute or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation and whichis or are by its or their rules prohibited from disturbing anyincome or property among its or their members.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or any body politic orcorporate.

14. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights ofRepublic andothers.

Limitations ofliability onMembers of theCorporation.

8Red Lotus Organization for HumanitarianServices (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.