PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

T. B. TENNAKOON FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 26 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st August, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 25, 2006

1T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

[Certified on 21st August, 2006]

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE T. B. TENNAKOON FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “T. B.Tennakoon Foundation” has heretofore been established atDambulla, in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the T. B. TennakoonFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 26 of 2006.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as presently are members of theT.B. Tennakoon Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of theCorporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of the“T. B. Tennakoon Foundation”, (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in allcourts, with full power and authority to have, and use acommon seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to organise, maintain and uplift the educationalactivities and- pre training programmes for the poorchildren and youth, who have no educationalfacilities ;

(b)to find opportunities for training in pre-vocationaleducation in the fields of sports, computer trainingand mass-media ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe T. B.TennakoonFoundation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

2T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

(c)to teach English, Tamil and other languages to needystudents ;

(d)to provide assistance to deserving students by wayof providing scholarships, loans and grants to pursuestudies and research in Sri Lanka and abroad ;

(e)to establish libraries, archives and cultural centresto preserve and protect the cultural heritage of allcommunities in Sri Lanka ;

(f)to establish a research centre and a museum toperpetuate the memory of late T. B. Tennakoon ;

(g)to establish and maintain institutions for the welfareand rehabilitation of destitute, disabled, aged,sick and displaced persons ;

(h)to utilize the youth labour for the welfare of thegeneral public ;

(i)to train persons for leadership ;

(j)to encourage the farmers and to establish societiesof young farmers ;

(k)to encourage the persons engaged in the activitiesfor the furtherance of national unity by conductingseminars, discussions and workshops ; and

(l)to commemorate or honour outstanding persons orinstitutions who or which have contributed towardsnational unity, by the grant of awards, prizes,scholarships and fellowships.

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to—Powers of theCorporation.

3T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

(a)acquire, hold or take any immovable property forthe Corporation or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property ofthe Corporation ;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation ;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind ;

(d)advance or lend and to borrow money for thepurposes of the Corporation in such manner andupon such security as the Corporation may thinkfit ;

(e)invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and tomaintain current, deposit and savings accounts inany Bank ;

(f)publish or cause to be published books, journals,magazines and other literature and establish andmaintain libraries, book shops and printing presses ;

(g)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise displinary controlover officers and servants required for the carryingout of the objects of the Corporation and to prescribetheir terms and conditions of service and dismisssuch officers ;

(h)generally do all such other acts and things as arenecessary for and incidental or conducive to thecarrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to therules of the Corporation, to be made under section 6 of thisAct be administered by a Board of Management (hereinafter

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

4T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

referred to as “the Board”) consisting of the Chairman, theVice Chairman, the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, theTreasurer, Assistant Treasurer and nine other members electedor appointed in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The First Board of the Corporation shall be the Boardof Management of the Foundation holding office on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting to makerules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or otherwritten law, for all or any of the following matters :—

(a)the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members ;

(b)the election of the office-bearers, the resignationfrom, or vacation of or removal from, office of, office-bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;

(c)the election of the members of the Board and itspowers, conduct and duties and the terms of officeof the members of the Board and the filling ofvacancies of the members of the Board ;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of theCorporation ;

(e)the procedure to be observed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board, the times,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefore and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally, for the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

Rules of theCorporation.

5T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may bemade under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules for the time being of the Corporation.

7.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of theChairman and either the Secretary or the Treasurer who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,and such sigining shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

8.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts dueto and subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grantsfor and on account of the Corporation, shall be deposited tothe credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theBoard shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(a) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due by andpayable to theFoundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

6T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 26 of 2006

(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor.

In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by such Institute ;or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by any one ofsuch Institutes.

11.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any otherpersons.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other Institute or Instituteshaving objects similar to those of the Corporation, and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or property among its or their members. Such Instituteor Institutions shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the dissolution of theCorporation.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.