PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2009

—————————

—————————

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

—————————

OVERSEAS MUSLIM EDUCATIONALTRUST OF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 51 OF 2009

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20091

Short title.

Preamble.

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

L. D.—O (Inc.) 1/2008

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE OVERSEAS MUSLIM EDUCATIONALTRUST OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a Trust called and known as the “OverseasMuslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka” has heretofore beenformed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout it’s objects and transacting all matters connected withthe said Trust according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Trust has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Overseas MuslimEducational Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 51of 2009.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka”(hereinafter referred to as the “Educational Trust”) or shallhereafter be admitted members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred toas the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under thename and style of the “Overseas Muslim Educational Trustof Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue and be sued, withfull power and authority to have and use a common seal andto alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporationof theOverseasMuslimEducationalTrust of SriLanka.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20092

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to provide scholarships for needy Sri Lankan Muslimstudents who have passed General Certificate ofEducation (Advanced Level) Examination andentered University in the faculties of Science,Engineering and Medicine;

(b)to provide for scholarships for needy Muslimstudents sitting the General Certificate of Education(Advanced level) Examination in science subjects;

(c)to financially assist needy Muslim students who arealready in University and who are unable tocomplete their courses of study due to insufficientfunds.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporatioh shall, subject tothe rules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Board of Governors (hereinafter referred toas the “Board”) Consisting of the Chariman, Vice Chairmanand other office bearers elected or appointed in accordancewith the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.

(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of theBoard of Governors of the Educational Trust holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotin orfurtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one ofthem including the power to—

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgagepledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,encumber or dispose of any immovable property forthe purposes of the Corporation;

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

General objectsof theCorporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20093

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or inkind;

(d)invest its funds, and to maintain current, depositand savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or invest money for the purposes of theCorporation in such manner and upon such securityas the Corporation may think fit; and

(f)appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinarycontrol over and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, on all or any of thefollowing matters :—

(a)the classification of membership and the admission,withdrawal or expulsion of member;

(b)the election of office-bearers, the resignation fromor vacation of, or removal from office of, officerbearers and their powers and duties;

(c)the election of members of the Board and its powersconduct and duties;

Rules of theCorporation.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20094

(d)the powers, duties and functions of the variousofficers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed or the summoing andholding of meetings of the Board, the time, places,notices and agenda of such meetings and the quorumtherefor and the conduct of business thereat; and

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation and the custody of its funds.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretfore or hereafter received by way of gifts,testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,contributions, fess or grants or any financial investment shallbe deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation inone or more Banks as may be determined by the Board.

(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercisingand discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out ofthe fund.

8.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Board.

Fund of theCorporation.

Audit andAccounts.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20095

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant issued bysuch Institute; or

(b)a firm of accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possessses a certificateto practice as an accountant issued by suchInstitute.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrumentwhatsoever except in the presence of the President and theSecretary of the Corporation or such other person dulyauthorized by the Board who shall sign their names on theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.All debts and liabilities of the Educational Trustexisting on the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto the Educational Trust on that day shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

11.No member of the Corporation shall, for the purposeof discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation orfor any other purpose, be liable to make any contributionexceeding the amount of such membership fees as may bedue from him to the Corporation.

12.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards the prmotionof its objects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall

Seal of theCorporation.

Debts due byand payable tothe EducationalTrust.

Limitation ofliability ofmembers.

Applicationof moneysand property.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20096

be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

13.Subject to the provisins of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty movable or immovable, which may become vestedin it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift testamentarydisposiiton or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation and whichis or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing anyincome or profit among its or their members. Such associationor associations shall be determined by the members of theCorporation at or immediately before the time of dissolutionof the Corporation.

15.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the republic or of any body politic or corporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Overseas Muslim Educational Trust of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 20097

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.